II - uh uh hello P Tomic hi buddy hey
Jill Rob you see man good to see you
psyched to be here besides being
California aside to be sitting across
from you psyched to have you you're
you're a free man now I'm escaped
yourself from the shackles of satellite
radio the shackles of corporate media
man this see that's the thing about
dedicating so much time do a company
like that they can just get rid of you
and then you don't have a connection to
all those fans you have to re-establish
a connection it's been an amazing
experience in the last what four weeks
and to happen to try to first of all I
watch my funeral play out publicly cuz I
had a huge community listeners for 12
years that I created and I was trying to
respond to all them and I you know you
can't say I still can't share it like
certain details right how much time did
they give you before the show's ended
the the show basically they told me
after the show that that was a last show
and then they let me have like a yeah
they said I could do a last show but
instead I was like let me just record a
message I don't wanna oh you didn't know
until the day of I had a pretty good
idea
I had a pretty good idea so they have
ratings well I don't think so if they
did I think I'd probably be in pretty
good shape I mean like it's a long story
but the show I was doing was pretty
special like it's really helping people
and we were enlightening is kind of like
what you do here I mean that's why I
love what you do here you people learn
they they get enlightened they get
entertained that you make people better
better people through this show the
contribution that you make that's what I
was doing
we were three hours every day talking
about issues talking about struggles
that people are having and it was
rewarding and challenging and satisfying
and I had total editorial control so you
know I can't I really can't complain
twelve years is they know though how
many people are listening to any given
show not that I ever know not that I
ever not that it was ever shown to me
and it has a weird thing that's the
thing that you have with Netflix as well
you know like if you do a special with
Netflix yeah and they go we really like
it it's great but they don't share with
it yeah you go well how are the ratings
they go we're really happy what does
that mean we're really really happy
that's like that's like when you first
started doing comedy
and you came upstage and your friends
like you looked confident now it's worse
than that because you don't you like
business decisions can be made based on
what kind of downloads you're getting
right if you is people if Netflix says
hey you know four million people
downloaded you're right shut your comedy
special they've really loved it
we're really happy let's do another make
any sense for the company to have the
information in the hosts not to have the
information why wouldn't you share it so
that everybody has they don't want you
to bargain with them well it doesn't
want you to negotiate ya know that I
mean the best thing about being fired is
you don't have to worry about being
fired yes and so you can do your own
thing and increasingly I think people
are taking advantage of that like you if
you're a network you have to have a
million people listening or watching to
keep the ratings up to sell advertising
you're only making just so much money if
you launch your own thing the way you
have and so many other people have
you're gambling with everything which is
what I'm doing now with with podcasting
which is really an original thing to do
and a very difficult way to make money
but if you do if you're good then you
control it all yeah you can do it it's
like if you've done a serious show and
you developed an audience and that's
something you definitely did do three
hours live every day you can you can
definitely do the same thing on a
podcast you just have to write no you
can it's like my family you have comedy
- yeah but it's you absolutely can do it
and it's just one of those things where
I see people doing the corporate route
and I'm like man I get how you needed to
do that 15 years ago you don't need to
do that now that's that's a bad decision
now
where was it good to say okay you got a
serious gig 15 years ago wow that's
awesome
I think you're absolutely right it's
just it's terrifying you know it's
always there's always pros and cons you
work for a company no matter what you do
you're working for some you have a place
to go they control all of the in our
case in media's case the the promotion
the marketing the legal they hire
producers to work for you and so on and
so there's a certain level of comfort
there but at the same time you've got to
answer to these people you got to deal
with these people and frankly you know
you're more talented than a lot of the
people that you're working with and you
have all these ideas and these
inspirations and you know they're either
gonna say yes or no to them and when
you're
your own you just put the wheels on him
and go yeah well I remember last time I
went to serious offices went to the you
know the the studios I was upstairs and
I was like there's too much money here
this is dis cost too much money like
there's too many people here there's you
see these fucking people wearing suits
like what does that guy do I guarantee
you he doesn't do fuck off God doesn't
have anything to do with whether or not
this shows any good and all you have to
do is press a button and get it out
there so there's all these people making
decisions about well we got marketing
this one that I'm gonna make sure we're
hit the right demographic like that's
the way I've worked at CNN and worked at
MSNBC I worked at Fox I feel like that's
corporate media or corporate America
where you have to wonder how much work
and how much value each person is
bringing to whatever their job is it's I
always want to know but it's they're
goofy serious is very goofy they offered
me a great deal zero money really zero I
feel like you might have told me that
before I don't know zero money so the
most hilarious deal ever will put your
show on the air and we'll give you a
zero like oh that sounds good I don't
even know I don't even when was that I
mean at that fucking recently really
yeah yeah yeah
they're hilarious how did you what did
you do I didn't do anything I don't talk
to anybody I mean I'm going through
managers and I say no to everything so I
was like it was easy to say no no I
always did everything directly myself
never I I could never allow somebody I
never felt like anybody could sell me
the way I could sell myself dude then
you have to think about selling yourself
you can't it takes any the what this is
I mean for people listening to this
podcast regularly I'm sorry I apologize
for repeating myself but the way I look
at everything and this is something I've
done over the last really cultivated
over the last 10 years but really
specifically focused on over the last
couple is a look at thinking is
bandwidth I only have to say if you have
a hundred units of thinking whatever the
fuck you have to do what you're involved
in to have this negotiation or sell
yourself to this and sell yourself to
that and talk about this and you know
and pitch your ideas to this person in
that person that's taken away time that
you could be working on your other shit
creating oh yeah I don't have any time
for that of zero time I allocate zero
band
for selling myself zero bandwidth for
doing other but fu all we have you
always done that that you we you that
way at the start because I mean you're
so big now I can and anybody can
understand that you can do that I never
had sold myself I always had an agent
and a manager really I've had the same
manager since I was an open my car
really yeah who
Jeff Sussman oh wow I know Jeff Sussman
yeah Wow
ha that's awesome that's but you're a
loyal guy - well he's awesome and you
know he's family we've been together
since
yeah I feel that way about my agent too
but I just like Conan Smith he's like
one of the few guys I met in this
business that I really always liked and
he didn't seem like he's part of this
business but he'd always been like
what's next and I'd always say
tomorrow's show cuz every three hour
live show we talked about everything
from tax policy the depression to
environmental isn't anything politics
parenting and so it was really
challenging to do that and to prepare
for all these interviews with these
smart people and then I wanted to go
home be with my girls like I had an
amazing work-life balance and I feel
like so most people never find that they
never understand it I found it and I
kept it for a really long time which is
what's scary did not have that I've been
working without my ass off since the day
I left Sirius XM and went right into a
meeting and have been on the phone ever
since reached out to you and everybody I
know I said hey you know what what can I
do but it's not it's not balance you
know I haven't seen my girls I haven't
seen my garden so I'm excited to
hopefully get back to that to some
semblance of that but most people don't
have that and I think I think finding
because you get you get so ambitious
especially as a guy feel like you for
your breadwinner especially it's just
work work work support your family got a
family
there's ego there's money and you just
keep going but then you realize there's
got to be there's got to be enough you
have to in my opinion you have to have
an idea of enough and I got there and
that's when I you know I just would work
and then I would shut that down I would
still do in as much comedy as I could
but that that definitely fell by the
wayside cuz the show it was up at 4:30
in the morning I was you know done by
2:00 and then it was I turned it off
well the good news is you can do your
show if you do a podcast you could do it
from wherever you live
right you knew it close by you can
either rent an office space or you could
do it in your fucking garage do it
anywhere especially doing now your kids
are at school you could do it yeah
you do it on your terms you know you
could bank a couple of them do two or
three in a day yeah and then take days
off
yeah but the most important thing I
think is that you stay independent we
were just talking about that out there
because there's going to be a bunch of
bozos I want you to join their net
they're calling John I don't know what
what the offers are I don't know what
the deals are but it's like why why I
have I just started doing this podcast
I've already been through what that is
I've got a like a great community of
listeners or like family to me they're
all they've all been so supportive you
like let me just try to test that out
definitely test out how active are you
on social media I'm trying to be as at
as I can I'm not great at it I know that
you have some sort of engagement so you
could tell where you're going yeah
definitely doing that but I mean you
don't want to be too wrapped up in
because again bandwidth it's gonna suck
up a lot of your time and right you know
for a lot of people it's a giant
distraction yeah I don't I don't that's
why I when I say I'm not that good at it
it's because I feel like it's a
distraction it seems like the very as a
creative person it's interesting it's an
interest you know letting a lot of
creative people who are great on Twitter
but I don't think in terms of what's a
great tweet or I should tweet right now
or put this up on Facebook you know
comics artists do this because they love
to create they love to perform they
don't love to promote what they're doing
nobody really likes that some people do
and some people are great at it but it's
usually not why you get into it at the
same time if you don't do it I mean
there's a lot of great comics who don't
promote themselves and there's a lot of
bad comics if we're talking about
comedians what about any performer who
are great at promoting themselves right
I saw somewhere between yeah yeah he'll
that are really good at promoting
usually but not that good because they
spend so much time promoting and they're
trying to get famous and trying to get
successful as opposed to work doing the
work right and just conscious of how
they appear to people you know they're
super conscious and and like they're
they're trying to cultivate an image
they're trying very hard can't be
bothered with that it's not good for you
I know it works but I can't to go back
to like what your deal was it serious
like when you were there like so they
don't yeah they don't give you any
indication what kind of numbers you're
pulling up mm-hmm
not really the indication of how many
people are listening to your show
it was hard to know and did you see the
phone volume you see the phones lock up
you see you know social media is not
really a good measurement because the
vast majority would sing on the show hey
follow me on Twitter yeah but what's
interesting I don't want to disparage
Sirius XM not because they gave me a
good you know exit deal I guess but
because it almost seems inauthentic
because they they gave me five contracts
which created an amazing life and
amazing community like I'm so grateful
to what I had there but yes certainly
the the problem I suppose is you're
you're behind this firewall like this
morning one of my best friends lives in
Australia and he's like yeah I listen to
Joe Rogan I listen to Rachel Maddow's
podcast like they don't have MSNBC there
they can't get sirius XM necessarily you
can't I guess online the point is if
you're behind that you're you're mostly
in the car and I think what I'm trying
to say is it's skewed to like 50 60
year-old affluent men who are in cars
which I psyched to have every one of
them but I would love to have a lot of
young people you know I'm staying out
here with my cousin and his son is 18
and he found out it's doing the Joe
Rogan show and he's flipping out but he
didn't know what I did at Sirius XM I
hate to say this because I'm thankful
that Sirius put on Howard and Opie and
Anthony and all these comics they had on
over the years but you're better off
without it it's not it's not where the
future is the future is not in satellite
radio it's just not it sucks
you go under tunnels it cuts out it cuts
I mean it's just it's dumb it's a
fucking dump you know way I mean you
could download an entire three-hour show
in seconds yep
via podcast you want get it on Spotify
or whatever you download the whole
fucking thing right before a plane ride
in the airport you're in the airport and
you go oh hey there's new Artie Lange
podcast beep yep download it you buy
you're fucking waiting for your your
gate to be called you you got the
podcast you get on the three-hour flight
you listen to the whole goddamn thing
it's easy what's interesting is going
really curious to see what you think but
going from live radio and constant
interaction with callers which I love
you know I mean that I'm a you to
podcasting and just being there alone
with the mic and you know against no you
can do that you cannot told I can I'm
told I can go live I haven't figured it
out yet I don't know you got a great
group of people that are working with me
amazing people of commodity craft the
greatest thing has been how people have
shown up like people from my life like
15 years you got 20 years yeah phone
just ringing Texas coming and no I
haven't talked to you and saying kind of
just what you're saying you're better
off your you know one door closes but
more importantly just people talking
about how you change their life and how
they can't wait to see what you do next
is an amazing amazing feeling like if
you if you do that with one person your
cup is full to have an audience of
people doing that for 12 years it's
overwhelming joy and satisfaction to be
able to look at my daughter's and be
like no matter what happens next what I
what I got to do there and what I did do
there on so many tough issues and help
so many people that's it man
I could I could I could diet right now
oh yeah don't die it would be good for
me to get on the show though nice you
you have a nice past which is wonderful
but the thing about scary things and the
thing about this is that it's an
opportunity for growth there's an
opportunity to do something there's an
opportunity to stretch your wings to
really take a chance and that's how you
grow and I appreciate you saying that
and I'm on the same wavelength and I'm a
guy who who thrives in these situations
like I've taken advantage of every room
I've been in I've never been the best
comic the best I've never been the best
at anything but I've always been gritty
I've always worked as hard if not harder
than anybody and now it's interesting
because I've never been in this type of
situation with a family you know it's
different when you're single and you're
young but I was working that hard and
making no excuses and back then doing no
drugs not drinking everything was just
about my career and being a good person
I thought if I was a good person that
mattered and come to find out being a
good person was the best form of
currency everybody competing and trying
to kill other people and our business or
in any other business to me I have no
interest in that and no attraction of
those people all I want to do is help
people not
just for purposes of altruism not to be
virtuous - because same reason you are
being kind is is the way to be not
putting a knife in someone's back and
when the show ended it was amazing
because people started tweeting things
that I had done that I never was thought
would become public they were private
things they weren't for and it was just
like days and days of people you know I
did it used to do a segment every week
called stand-up with a veteran for
veterans and like this veterans
community came out strong they're like
what they let you go you did so much for
us I was like I think it's a dying
company I don't think you should dwell
on all this I mean it's just a dying
company now you have an opportunity and
it's great that you did all these good
things it's great I hope I don't mean to
sound negative I don't mean to sound
like I'm dwelling on it I mean to say it
was an amazing experience
that was afforded to me I leveraged it I
took advantage of it I'm really excited
every day I wake up now just ideas ideas
ideas hammering well the show while you
were doing the show will you under any
sort of exclusive thing where you
couldn't do anything on the internet
right yeah yeah I mean yeah pretty much
you couldn't do a podcast it was direct
now that was dread competition yeah cuz
do you remember when Anthony from Opie
and Anthony Anthony ku Mia had live from
the compound course he was doing was it
overlapping with serious oh yeah that's
why I started my podcast because they
were silent because because he had a
studio in his basement where he's doing
karaoke holding a machine gun he was
drunk
I was like what was that oh yeah
he's fucking crazy I know I was I always
had a great relationship with him that I
love that guy yeah he's one of the
funniest guys our pilot he liked me
because we agreed on nothing but I you
know we got along but he's a genius I
mean he really really is like he's a
pretty smart dad but the way he thinks
and talks about things gree with him I
don't agree with him he's a very
entertaining guy I'd loved doing radio
with him and he had this basement setup
where he had a green screen and he yes I
remember that like a real production
table and production mics and he spent
all this money on like really high-end
stuff and he and I had a conversation
I'm like what are you doing he's like
I'm just fucking around I'm having fun I
was like
I remember thinking about it going I
need to do something like that
and when me and my friend red BAM when
we started it we just used a laptop but
I remember thinking about what it would
he had set up so we were just doing like
answering questions and talking to
people on you know I forget what it was
I guess it was Twitter 2009 there'll be
10 years next month it's awesome man
letitia's the but the the inspiration
was Opie and Anthony first because they
their show was like just a hang they
just there was not no structure to it it
was just having conversations to the
people but then when I saw Anthony have
that set up in his basement I was like
oh I could do something like this and by
the way having a studio and you're
always thought that was weird cuz he's
all the way on Long Island I was like is
that gonna work how's gonna get people
out there and I'm hard in the bird wired
to when he got fired it was hard to get
people out there yeah I'd imagine but
like him I had a you know got a big a
vast network in technology has gotten so
much better in terms of getting guests
but I mean I just
you got a wonder how it's how it's all
going to work and how do you if you're
gonna go live there's just so many
things it seems to be thinking about how
it's gonna what's gonna work like what
works and but do you know anybody that
has a studio that yeah yeah do it
yeah as long as you'd say that commute
that's what the commute that the fact
that he has a studio and when I got a
studio in my house Sirius XM had me do
it early like 6a 9:00 a.m. slot for two
years and I was like you did it in your
house yeah negotiated I was like you
want me to do 6a 9:00 a.m. you got to
build me a nice studio and they did and
that was the richest I could ever be
friend of Mines wife works at a college
and walks five minutes that's our
community I think a commute is almost a
definition of your wealth my body turned
to mush when I had to drive into the
city an hour each way like everything
about about a long commute made me feel
weaker and less then and the idea that
you can have a studio in your house it's
or work from home no matter what your
job is is a pretty sweet deal yeah I
think the commute can definitely grind
on you but it also is an opportunity to
listen to books on tape for sure yes
whatever you can t productive
positive yet and you can go two hours
early and get an hour workout in before
you get there did that there's a lot of
good stuff that can come from everything
if you look at things correctly I I I
share your outlook I think that one of
the things I've been listening to your
podcast for years but like you know not
every episode not religiously but since
I lost my job I was like let me let me
just start listening in a row again and
what's really interesting about you in
my opinion is your you are the perfect
example of somebody that everybody wants
to put into a box and you can't
it's what's wrong with everything in our
country in our conversation it's
whatever people think that you are there
everybody that I tell that I'm doing
this show they set they have an opinion
of you and then I listened to your show
and here's the the main takeaway I get
from your conversations is that you try
to find the positivity in everything
you're like the most positive guy
whatever you think about any issue or
any idea in the opinion you have you're
always being so positive and so helpful
and it has been honestly in this like
trying time the other thing my dad just
had my guy get fired my dad had a heart
attack and then a week later he's on
blood thinners and he faints and bounces
his face off a counter rips his eye open
goes into surgery now he can't see out
of his eye and he's a ski instructor and
a cyclist and he's a race car driving
instructor and so I'm dealing with that
dealing with my job dealing with my
family listening to you and every a
handful of other people just bringing as
much positivity to every scenario in
situation and that's my nature too but
it's somedays doesn't matter who you are
you got to peel yourself off the ground
but you know you can't I can't let my
daughter see me sweat either yeah well
I'll let them see me vulnerable but
they're not gonna see me sweat well you
don't have to sweat you just have to
grind just have to hustle listen you're
a respected guy you're a very good host
of a show you just have to find a new
venue that's all it is this is a good
opportunity you're healthy yeah you have
anything wrong with you mentally and
physically I've always thought mentally
that I was the happiest healthiest guy
so it's it's been a weird thing to not
be able to
spells that on people and physically I'm
yeah I'm back to I'm back to training
well that's all that's good shit man
it's like you just need to find a place
the thing about doing it in the city and
I know you don't want to live in the
city but doing it in the city you can
get guests in studio for sure and that
is so much better it's so much better
why do you think I like why do you think
that is the way we're talking right
great but you can't look on a camera at
somebody there's a weird way look when I
was doing it with Snowden yeah there's a
weird day he wasn't even Russia or
something like that yeah but it doesn't
matter it was real time I mean that the
actual lag was very minimal wouldn't we
think like the the lag was the Russian
ace time nothing but even face time like
when I'm on the road I'm face time with
my family it's weird like what did you
say huh okay right you know so there's a
weird thing I agree I always preferred
having people in studio personal it's
it's 50% better I feel I'd be more I
just made up that number I feel like one
cool opportunity is to travel to
different places and find the most
interesting people and do gigs there do
stand-up at night spent a couple days
there interviewing the most interesting
people in whatever town that you're in
Oh 100% and so that's kind of what I'm
the feeling about that is you're gonna
need someone to film if you want to do a
video element of it here's the thing
about a video element oh yeah when you
when you talk about some people don't
listen to this podcast they don't watch
it right it's a lot of people right when
we first did it the video aspect of it
was just an aside we just we did it with
a webcam and then we started putting it
on iTunes and the iTunes was way more
popular than the video which was on
Ustream which was it's not I mean I
don't even know if it exists anymore
does Ustream exist it does now it's
YouTube and now it's YouTube more you
have a it's a built in platform right
right so there's millions and millions
of people are on it just look at yeah I
definitely want to do that I definitely
want to do that but I'm thinking you
make it obviously a lot of good points
about where it can be done and what you
know what the best ways to do it and
I've been talking to so many smart
people obviously every day I mean my
network is is unlucky to have this
network of amazing people that are just
so kind and generous to give me this
advice and
still you know they know you don't be an
idiot don't put enough don't do that you
know it's a as a comic you I think
that's that's the way that you think you
want people to be as brutal as they
can't be with criticism you don't take
it personally just like okay
yep I'll take that advice I'll apply
that and change that and tweak that yeah
well it's nothing wrong with getting
some constructive or even destructive
criticism like you did you have to you
know you have to have feedback I mean
there's not always it's not always
accurate or correct but feedback is
important and that's one of the good
things about having like one of those
talk shows where people call in you know
it's one of the good things so they get
to give you some free but I love that
one of the bad things is they get to
give you some feedback fine of the bad
things yeah it's always entertaining
like if they shit on me yeah it was
always very entertaining as a comic like
I love Echols I love anybody yelling out
I live for it those are my favorite
moments what I like best is one-on-one
conversations with people that's what I
like me to and that's what I like best
to listen to as well yeah and you know
like when you know I listen to Stern and
then when someone would call and I was
like why I let somebody callin and some
guy would yell Baba Booey are talking
about sniffing Robins farts or something
but they would just be born and you
don't want to be rude but you have to be
like I can I'm doing a show here man
you're dessaline odd that he would just
go to callers in the middle of a
conversation you know with some lady
who's an actress or something it's just
yeah I mean that's the chaos that he
sort of cultivated well I think that's
what's the great the great thing about
this show is the people that you get and
the interaction the conversation that
you have and I was trying to do the same
thing for you know at Sirius
well you doing it you just were doing it
in this walled garden yeah a bunch of
assholes that are running the ship and
doing it for like twenty twenty five
minutes apiece I'm always amazed that
you and you know handful of other people
can sustain like a two-hour conversation
I love that I thought he can you can do
it too
I know I think I can but that was never
allowed to that was okay those rules
were always like not to commercial yeah
yeah yeah you had hard breaks I'm doing
a podcast in the other day and I'm like
thanks for tuning in we're almost out of
time I'm like you didn't tune in and
we're not almost out of time I can do
whatever the hell I want those such
thing I could just keep talking we can
just keep talking well
worse things Presidential Debates yah
there's a horrible taking the person
who's gonna run the free world and you
have to stop because there's a Palmolive
commercial this Palmolive even thing or
I'm such an old man pulling out fucking
Palmolive reference I think they're
usually pharmaceutical companies at this
point Pfizer
yeah but donor pill the irony of them
talking about the pharmaceutical
companies and then they advertise during
the break but you're absolutely yeah
it's not real but I mean the
presidential debates are so not real and
all those networks mean my friends
produce those things and it's just like
it's a show it's it's like when you get
burnt like when I had Bernie Sanders in
here and you get to talk to them like a
real human yes you go oh you're a human
being it cares about people and you have
a different perspective on what these
people are saying your your idea of
democratic socialism is not this wacky
social and a soundbite
yeah that's not this thing where people
think you just gotta steal money from
hard-working folks and give it to lazy
people that's the worst case you know
scenario it's none of that no it's not
we're gonna we're not gonna privatize
stores and the thoughtful person and I
was talking his because since I told you
I'm thinking very seriously now but also
running for Congress and I was talking
to his I think deputy chief of staff got
named Ari Rabin off great guy and I was
I was telling him I was doing your show
and he told me that after Bernie Sanders
did your show he everybody was
recognizing him I'm like really like he
reached a whole different demographic
talking to you than he ever had before
because he's mostly on those cable news
shows he's mostly on terrestrial or you
know radio but when you do these and it
would he even call this now a
non-traditional alternative media it
might as well be mainstream but the
point is when you have a long
conversation with Bernie Sanders and
he's not like up there you know booed
you know all that shit is is annoying
you've heard it before he sits down and
has a real conversation with you in a
Pacific oh man that guy's make it a lot
of good points yeah well you got to
think of like what is annoying to people
and one of the things it's annoying to
people is that fucking rapid-fire not
education is not my thing like people
like hey hey hey fuckface I just got off
work yeah why are you yelling at my
annoying and he wants to take my money
fuck him and you just press stop right
and that's you would have to be able to
change your cadence your diction and
your commentary and you have to be able
to get questions that are more
thoughtfully that's the thing about all
these cable news interviewers and
network like they always want to get
some headline and that's everything you
know about corporate media - they want
you so I've been in that belly of that
beast Joe for the last 15 years
corporate you know political media and
it's so manufactured I can tell you so
many stories they call you up and they
say you know how do you feel about
anything we want to make sure that
you're a completely the opposite of the
other panelists and so that you have a
really robust argument and it's like not
everything is binary most things aren't
there's a ton of nuance a ton of
gradation we don't have to hate each
other that that that's how they get
ratings that's how they sell advertising
I blame most of the problems in our
country on corporate media terrestrial
radio just doing that format all day it
works really well for conservatives not
as well for liberals but it still works
and they sell ads and if a few people
make a lot of money but the country
suffers this the idea that we're so
divided is such bullshit I talked to
people from all over the country travel
all over the place I understand the
issues really intimately and I don't
care what you think about anything
there's something you have to offer me
there's something you have to make my
life to enrich me I don't care what you
believe on abortion or guns or certainty
because if you could teach me how to fix
this engine I'm into it I'm gonna learn
how that if you can teach me how to
exercise better but you don't like our
trade policies I don't give a shit what
you think about our trade policies let's
just not even talk about it let's talk
about the things and it's trying to get
to the but the the root of somebody's
soul is what we should all be trying to
do that every day we should do right
what what happened to you that made you
think this way what is the experience
what is your journey to me that's the
fascinating shit about human beings well
one of the things about something like
cable talk-show
or you know new shows or any of these
political arenas is that there's a lack
of real interaction with the general
public in terms of like real real
conversations with people you have a
host who's wearing makeup who's got
spotlights on them and there's a
microphone in front of him and he's
talking to his other people and there's
cameras pointed at them and no one
really feels like this is this is not an
or a but it's not a normal way of people
talk no nobody talks like that and
rarely you see someone sit down and
they're like every now and then they
have those shows where like it's a
one-on-one like Trump will sit across
from fucking what's his name what's that
dude's name which network it's a fox guy
Hannity no other Dobbs that guy yeah
who's Larry it's a funny Washington two
of them together
I mean Dobbs is lost his mind he's just
he is all he is digging way but it works
he's making I used to know I used to be
on with that guy the most pleasant guy
in the world but what he's doing he is
it's so much he's a North Korean
situation lou dobbs it's like state
media every night it doesn't matter you
know he shall not be questioned kind of
guy worship the president's like what
are you doing that's not even but but
that's the it's I once got into this
long drawn-out argument with Chris Cuomo
who I like a lot but I was talking to
him about you know this Ament the
difference between TV and radio it's
simple it's on radio and you got a long
form you have a 20-minute two two-hour
conversation and it's real and you get a
lot done on TV you can have a
five-minute conversation I go there's so
many guests that you have on your show
that I have on my show but they're way
more they have a the ability to be
thoughtful and nuanced yeah and make
points they can't do that on cable and
now you know he's doing a radio show so
good for him well that's what I was
getting at is that this separation
between the people and then the just
unnatural environment that they're in no
one can relate to it what they can
relate to is two people just talking to
each other they can't relate to it Joe
but they also think because they're
conditioned to that if it's on a network
this person must be an authority it must
be intelligent but I'm here to tell
everybody I was talking about credit
default swaps in the financial industry
I have an associates degree and came up
in the New York City comedy clubs like I
really didn't have any business talking
about that but the thing is I could
sound really smart for three and a half
minutes on anything give me a minute
five I can't go that deep on certain
issues and I shouldn't be an authority
on it but just because I'm on cable news
with a jacket and a shirt and I'm this
guy people like okay well I believe this
guy I know it's not real no not really
diem - I don't think twenty thirty years
from now that's gonna exist in the same
breath short er than that yeah and then
the whole also the interjection of
commercials every seven minutes the
things they're doing on debates is the
same thing they're doing on these other
cable talk shows where they're trying to
encapsulate these things into these very
quick five-minute sound bites and have
you ever heard of intelligence squared
debate yes my friend John Donvan is the
moderator he should be moderating the
presidential debates he's the greatest
guy they have these really well informed
panelists to have a motion and they do
like two hours and you can come in
thinking so often one idea about the
issue and you leave thinking something
completely different because you have
these very smart people debating with an
excellent moderator it doesn't let any
bullshit and you really learn a lot no
commercial breaks and you can you know
listen even three people there's too
many people probably yeah it is it's
like if you want to get to know someone
it's a one-on-one because even with
three people you're there's moments
where you have something to say and then
somebody interject something else and
then you lose your point and then you
don't express it and then the other
person is talking and you don't know
when to talk and then you find yourself
being a little bit more assertive in the
way you're talking to try to be you feel
like I'm gonna alienate talking enough
and then if there's four people you're
fucked
like the most ridiculous thing they ever
do is when they have those seven people
panels and one person just starts
fucking chiming in screaming out loud
and they talk over people and but
they're also talking about because I had
one foot in cable news for a long time
still do I mean I still go on and then I
had my long-form radio show where I
would talk to policy experts it was very
like the tight like right now when
they're talking about the polls for the
presidential race is anybody that's
paying attention to that is
wasting their time it's a complete waste
of time to talk about who's leading and
what Paul a year away it's a year away
you have a terrorist attack you'd have
the economy crash like it for a game
it's not a game okay but it is a game if
you're watching basketball do you not
pay attention to the first minute of the
game because it doesn't really matter
what's really important is how many
points are scored over the four quarters
those are four quarters of a basketball
game is I think there might be to have
with collagen collagen Pro but the point
is it's this is a weird game going on
like Kamala Harris was a head now she's
fucked like this is fun it's fun for
people this is half of what it is I
don't know I know it's serious I know
it's significant I know there's grave
consequences to picking the wrong leader
but this is a game right but it's a
bullshit game because as you said
earlier the reason why Camilla Harris or
anybody else takes a step backwards is
because one stupid moment and how we
possibly taking somebody on why Mel
Harris is there's a bunch of different
short yeah never gets old
never ever but it is weird that it is
weird that this day and age that that
crashed him well given everything that
candidates have done and said yeah but
honestly there's probably something else
it's how he responded to that as well
it's like he showed a lack of humility
or understanding of what it was like
yeah it's how it's stupid that's not
what's important ladies and gentlemen
yeah I screamed out like we've got a
microphone on me and I get excited I go
yeah I mean you can also talk just about
the ego of the people who are running
for these offices and they don't seem to
have an understanding of the idea of ego
and what it means and how they should
try to separate from it while using it
like once you get into politics much
less entertainment and you get really
well-known if they mean you start
believing things about yourself that
aren't even remotely true they're not
that right huh there's certainly some of
that alive I'll have acting yourself
right you you have an image you're
protecting yourself yeah it's it's a
delicate dance that I am completely
turned off by I mean that's why it's
it's hard to think about like I was
seriously considering running
because were or are I it's hard right
now because I learned some crazy shit
what'd you learn don't don't
first of all drum roll please the the
corruption I live in New York State
wait a minute New York State's not
corrupt it's in New York State stop the
fucking stop this show all of all of you
know politics there's levels of
corruption but then in the New York
state Democratic Party there's always
been all kinds of issues so I bet I met
with a whole bunch of really smart
people about running for New York 17
which is the district that I live in
like the day after I lost my gig at
Sirius the woman had been representing
that district for 33 years announced
that she was retiring and I was like
well I got I got nothing going on and
I've always thought about running for
office and let me you know seriously
consider it I reached out to a whole
bunch of people from all different walks
of life congressmen that were in office
that had been out of office campaign
coordinators I thought - Chris Cuomo I
thought the whole bunch of people but
there's one person told me that if you
want to if you want to win regardless of
your party affiliation you have to
there's a certain special interest group
that you had to promise you wouldn't
interfere with and make sure they got an
envelope of cash and I'm like well I'm
not doing that I will tell everybody and
everywhere I go about that what is it I
can't because I don't have a second
source so I wouldn't say it but well I'm
trying to get one true what is it rhyme
with the special interest group yes
won't do it because it was just that
brutal now that real now and it's it's
dangerous but the point is the point is
what's it what's the opposite of that
special interest group maybe the private
sector but will would be like what
they're opposed to what did that be that
they're opposed to you interfering with
you interfering with the way that they
run their show but I'm saying like what
what group that we know would be a pose
well yeah I could tell you it could be a
religious group a private sector a union
or a comp
you know corporate interest it could be
any one of the the point Lu the point
now the point is that all of those types
of organizations pressure that you have
to I'm an honest guy I can't I can't lie
I've never said anything into a
microphone that I don't I don't believe
and that's been both to my detriment and
to my benefit I think I'm authentic so
when I was talking about running for
office my brother's like you can't you
can't lie you can't be dishonest to
people how are you gonna do that you'll
have to sell out at least a little bit
that was the other thing and then I
realized I'm not sure that this district
or you know the country is ready for
someone like me I'm a comic I've set a
billion things on TV and a microphone
and on stage and we're in a humorless
country right now number one I smoked
pot like are they ready for for the are
we there yet
I don't think we're humorous I disagree
I think there's a lot of criticism going
on but that's because there's a lot of
policies do you think I agree with you
overall but I mean for politicians for
me to run for office and you see some
stand-up bit I did or something and then
my opponents playing that out of context
dude I got five words for you grab them
by the pussy that guy's the president I
think he is an aberration I do I don't
think there's anything else that can get
away with that kind of stuff I think you
probably right he's definitely an
aberration but Al Franken one is the
senator as a comedian but he was a
writer like there wasn't a ton and he
got in trouble when there was a photo of
him I've sent out more than a photo
there was actually all the allegations
but that let the photo you know
perception politics is perception and
and whatever people see it's different
than what they hear and what they
believe and so that's the point that
photo was harmless but it looked bad
just like any joke I said or anything
that I've said out of context so I just
feel like and then I thought that it you
know I they could destroy me in any
future earning potential that I could
have I just the second episode of my
podcast that interviewed Tim Ryan you
know he is he was running for a
president because I was asking what does
it take and it's four so you got a run
you had a raise a million dollars from
people and individuals you don't like
you don't want to be affiliated with but
you have to you got to make compromises
that
that the whole system is so filled and
corrupted with money in almost every
district in every state regardless of
the office and how do you how does a
person I'm a fairly affluent guy I'm a
white straight guy whatever but I
couldn't if I don't know how I can
afford to apply for a job for a year and
pay my mortgage so I want to do it if it
looks feasible and if I don't have to
take care of my family my parents not to
mention you know pay my bills but it's
you have to be an independently wealthy
person which sucks because wreck it
makes it much harder for regular people
there's plenty of exceptions to run for
for office now when you say that you had
to give them an envelope and that you
had to what did you have to do to Jeff
to support them intermediaries you have
to say basically you have to basically
say I'm not going to interfere with your
business we'll just look the other way
to say that that's what I'm told that
was what I was told by Iran how are you
told this you told this like hey if you
ever want to be congressman no you have
to do this don't make you do but if you
but if you don't want to win it's you're
far more likely to win a few if you
follow likely it's not impossible but
they'll they'll try to destroy you if
you don't really yeah I can't it's like
Joe will just go after you can destroy
if it's just making you say who this is
because I don't know it's positively
true
I need another source I try to act like
a journalist and someone who's the
intermediary like what kind of person is
this he managed campaigns in that
district he knows everything about the
politics of and the special interest in
that history could potentially be that
he's hoeing you out absolutely which is
why I won't tell you because and once
he's saying that so that he's he's like
sort of playing both sides and he wants
I'm sure he did but he might also want
to maintain his relations possible with
whatever group this is so he says hey
I've got an assurance knowing this guy I
don't think he he's affiliated with that
group but it's possible and and so I try
to but you don't have journalistic
ethics before I would say something I'll
tell you off the mic okay but I but I
wouldn't wait for the show to be over
but I wouldn't say
without having a second source like
that's what's responsible about so much
of our media right like when when Trump
or anybody says fake news it's like
listen it's not it you can't if you have
to have two sources you go to your
editor with those two sources and then
you can print it you can't make them up
if you make up a source you're you're
you're like Mencia that's it you're done
you can't that's like stealing a joke
you can't make up a source you'll never
work again it would be worse when you
make up a joke I mean if you make up a
source
I mean you didn't work when C is still
working fair enough people do journalism
and comedians are a lot different I mean
this the worst if you if someone finds
that you making up a source yet nobody
does it in in the few in the few
instances where someone did make up a
source or even plagiarize that which of
the two worst things you can do is
journalists they never work again or
they don't work for a very long time you
know Johann Hari
he's been on your show he's been on my
show he was accused of some like I think
it was plagiarism yeah and it took him a
really long time to win his integrity
back I didn't find that out actually
until after he'd been on the second time
yeah but like what great guy he's a
great guy what was he accused of I don't
remember it was I feel like it might
have been plagiarism though and and that
kind of thing the point is that kind of
thing
ruins you and so I wouldn't come here
and do that even though I don't I
wouldn't call myself a journalist but I
would want because of what you're saying
cuz you're smart yeah I'm very skeptical
too of people and their source of what
their interests are and a lot of people
really want me to run for Congress for a
lot of different reasons but mainly
because they think I can tap my network
of wealthy people and you know they can
make money love Trump or hate Trump that
is precisely what he was talking about
when he said drain the swamp now this is
the swamp this sort of this sort of
convoluted world of influence well yes
and now the swamp yeah but it's also
money and all the other things that he
didn't drain and he actually brought in
people that were he made the swamp
swampy er way it's filled with malaria
in crocodiles like like I always we
don't even define things unfortunately
we don't the same baseline unfortunately
in this country of what what words mean
but I've always thought what that meant
was
is government corruption that the
private sector is influencing government
because in the way that they obviously
do it the system that we have is you
have to get money from wealthy people
and wealthy interests and then you have
to advocate for them whatever the
interest is you have to or they won't
give you more money and so that's what's
beautiful bot Elizabeth Warren Bernie
Sanders they are not allowing any
donations from any super PACs from any
wealthy individuals it's it's grassroots
and then Chelsea's doing that as well
yeah a handful of more of the whole
Democratic Party mostly committed to it
I don't think Biden's doing it but the
if Biden was doing it I don't think he
remembers I totally agree with that by
the way he's out
I'll listen I don't think you should be
running for president oh if you're 75 I
think the same about Bernie and Biden
all three of them are all my dad some
people are 75 and they're very lucid my
dad is in the best shape of any man I
know do just had a heart attack Bernie
Sanders just had a heart attack yeah
like it when you get older especially
has a man get breakdown yeah but it's
like who has the energy plus I just
think younger people like just have more
of an actual interest and understanding
of what's happening that's why Andrew
Yang is so attractive yes yeah I know I
agree with that but I think that there's
I mean it depends entirely in the
individual there's 75 year olds that are
healthy and there's 75 year olds I
disagree because you could be the
healthiest 75 year old in the world did
everything right and then she can just
shut down because you're 75 your body's
just old it's possible but it's it's not
the the actuary you know possibilities
are just far higher but you're you're
balancing things out right you also have
wisdom and experience or education so
person maybe I mean Bernie Sanders is
one of my heroes but I want him to just
you know not endorse Elizabeth Warren
and get it over with
well first of all being a president is a
ridiculous proposition period yeah and
it's an antiquated idea ain't great to
have one alpha absolutely runs this
whole cycle show yes it's a great idea
when there's 50 people in a try yeah yes
chief yeah but not a president of 330
million people that is an outsized
influence and a bully pulpit and then
and then has this that we have this
reverence for them
and this defense of them or this
attacking of their their every move
their every character and it's just such
an easy thing to dunk on them and it's
just tiresome to me
oh yeah it's unhealthy for the country
too it's unhealthy for all of us it's
unhealthy for our souls every single day
especially like like the thing that you
miss about pre Trump well whoever it was
Republican or Democrat like I remember
when you used up weekends like you could
no policy that's internet though let's
see alright there's a lot of that have
you seen Trump's religious advisor yes
how wonderful is that she the woman who
says if you if you don't support Trump
you're going against God yes yes can we
play any of that it's it I mean I don't
think so it's not that vit that video I
don't think we can play okay that's too
bad I can do what I think you don't
support President Trump then you are
going against God and it's like yeah I'm
not going against God those people those
people are so effective as like I think
comics can really relate to them they're
so good at performing what's so
convincing
yeah if you and if you know kinnison was
one of those right right he was a
preacher right he's one of the yeah who
could turn into a comic he had that
skill set it Trump is the same way the
way he stalks the stage and works the
audience I mean it's very very effective
but it's also for to say that if you
don't support a certain politician like
to me that stuff is so it's very boring
come on there's a binary bullshit but
she's a horseshit artist no matter what
I mean yeah that's what she does she's
trying to get low frequency people she
catches these nine-volt brains Paul away
now just reached new advisor ratchets of
rhetoric denounces demonic networks
opposing president's calling
Demond she's wonderful I bet that lady
does coke and I bet she likes it right
in the booty I think that every time you
see parties every time you see one of
these people I just have a knee-jerk
reaction when I see a Catholic priests
I'm like oh yeah when I see one of these
people I'm like they're completely
contradicting you know these are gay
conversion
that have come out away yeah they're
banging guys
oh hi all the time remember Ted Haggard
do I owe a massage I'll bet you just
well paid math or no smooth-skinned yeah
of course I would know sighs Ted Haggard
without met really black men accolade
see he's forget what he said he said
something like you know after Sunday
service you know what should we do and I
said how about meth and blow jobs and
that was it boom that's actually what
they do it's a joke but it's also for
obably what you know he seemed like such
a nice guy - but it's so sad - not
really though did you ever see the thing
with him and Dawkins when he got really
nasty with you Wow yeah yeah that was
before he actually got in trouble - this
was wrong I was when he was Serina
filled with back to ego yeah when you
have when you think so much of you and
your ideas and you come up in that case
and Haggard versus Richard Dawkins is
like Mike Tyson versus a baby is
something lower yeah something much
lower that's as a fetus and there's no
match and so you're gonna lose your shit
you know I love those debates on super
frustrated but I'm so he's frustrated
that you know Dawkins had Dawkins has an
arrogance about him you know this yes
scientist tender yeah but he does pretty
specifics particularly well I had him in
here recently we was talking about life
after death that he thinks the lights
just go out and I'm like well maybe but
we know we don't know I don't think I
don't have any experience with what
happens when you die I really have no
idea it would be very interesting if
there was some sort of dimensional
travel thing that happens to the spirit
of the soul or whatever this concept of
consciousness is how much have do you
think about your mortality sure on a
regular I try not to it doesn't do any
good right but when it comes in what do
you do you know try to be nice to the
people I know try to try to be kind to
the people that I care about that's an
interesting answer when I said to you is
that when you think about your own death
what do you do I just try to be a good
person I love that smell of that do any
what while
here I want as little bad feelings as
possible it's impossible to have no bad
feelings right so whatever I can do to
mitigate that I try how have you worked
on your anger and had that dissipate
like what's the best thing exercise
Fraser says the big one yeah because I
think a lot of my anger is just caveman
genetics so and then a fucked-up
childhood too so up in a violent
household and being around a lot of
violence like I also had to deal with
them
I grew up essentially all throughout
high school and toils 22 fighting so I
was always invasive as an ally for your
emotions yeah wells also developed my
human potential his martial arts was
competition but but it's also there's a
downside of that that I grew up like
being praised for explosive violence mmm
that's wrong
yeah yeah I mean it was in competition
it was it was agreed upon I was doing it
with other trained killers but it's
still that's that's a weird thing to get
past I yeah I have an example of I mean
you I'm sure you have a billion of money
mean to cut you off but when my daughter
was like three years old you were
visiting family and people I don't
really know my wife's family and his
five-year-old son goes over my
daughter's just looking up at the TV
this little three-year-old girl and he
comes over and he just clocks her knocks
her over and we're all like oh my god
what what and the dad comes over and
just starts beating the shit out of his
five-year-old and I just started giving
I'm like that's why he did it that's why
he did it he you learn what you live you
know and children learn what they live
and so when your so when you're but what
you're saying when you when you train
when you exercise are their feelings are
their emotions coming out or is it
energy that you just expend energy
yes it's thinking them down when you're
not like angry at my child or anything
when I'm hitting the bag no I'm just
exercising I also when I'm running or
doing yoga or anything I'm doing a
strenuous I just had this conversation
with Ben Westhoff who was on here before
you
the way I described it as I think that a
human body has a certain amount of
physical requirements I think there's
but your body's a system and this system
is designed through nature natural
selection and hundreds of thousands of
years of being human beings to have
issues that come up and to be physically
prepared to to deal with those issues
whether it's a neighboring tribe invades
you and animals trying to attack you or
you're just trying to hunt and gather
food all those things are built into our
system it takes tens of thousands of
years for that DNA to shift and change
become something different so we have a
certain amount of physical requirements
that were just born with and it's
different with every person some people
have less some people have more I tend
to be on the high side and I'm a
different person when I exercise I'm a
different person when I when I get time
to sleep correctly and eat correctly and
exercise I'm different and I like that
balance better that's a nicer person I
like that guy better so I try to be that
guy as much as I can but I have a
million different people living inside
my brain all the time bouncing around
fighting for dominance really oh yeah
this is like it is a director they try
to keep them all in order which is like
the the consciousness like is it but
he's got a strong lot all right then Oh
everybody has it there's always things
like you're a better person when you're
well-rested life is going well for sure
fit you you had great interactions with
your family great interaction with your
friends and then you run into someone on
the street versus you just got fired
from your job you walked in and your
wife's sucking the plumber off you you
have all these things now anime just now
all those things can have a live my job
I go home there's my wife leave the
plumber or a different person now I
ended upon what what you encounter in
your life I completely agree with that
but it's it's it's a practice I like
that way yeah and you have to practice
it every day and you find out you're not
gonna fix right right you know you can't
better you're just gonna get better at
forming the good habits we're about
therapy I don't do that never did no but
I do get an isolation tank what I've
done a lot of psychedelics I was gonna
ask you about that I'm thinking about
trying that you should I feel like
that's gonna do it right now part of
your life yeah yeah right now shrooms
you ever done mushrooms now like no I
can't I mean I would like to if I do it
I want to deal with you for sure
okay but I got a long night ahead of me
I think Oh what are you doing tonight
like family oh I haven't seen a lot of
time that gave me different balls I
probably don't want to microdose
microdose is not a bad way to get
through a day can you drive with it
oh I wouldn't recommend it yeah okay I
don't know where I am I'm gonna rent the
car yeah I really want to do it I'm
ready for it but I feel nothing huh
you've done nothing no I mean we every
day yeah that's been my saving grace mmm
yeah you got any of those Kevin Smith's
no no I don't want to smoke a little
weed on on the show because I feel like
it makes me for both well you're already
verbose you talk for a living something
wrong with that but it makes me even
worse and I want to crusty and broken
don't worry about it we can do it
towards the end whatever I love ya but
for me that I didn't my brother was in
rehab when I was 16 he was 18 I love
that you're scanning the room Kevin
Smith joints we own the table okay so uh
what's that right there
double tube right there Jamie that's
hilarious
there's just stuff everywhere what's
that oh there's one what is this this
ashtray filled with treasures mm-hmm but
I didn't touch any alcohol or drugs so I
was like 25 my brother was in rehab with
do an intervention it was nuts and I was
like I knew I wanted to be a comic and I
thought that if I did anything it would
affect me it would distract me you loser
no no it would just make me pursue that
and not my dreams this is the other
thing like it you see if I if I take a
hit off this and I still want to run for
Congress like it shouldn't matter this
is how I deal like well it's as Eagle
you know told you I know but ranked yep
of course it's preposterous to judge but
people do yeah but I think the
generation that's coming up will judge
less the generation after then will
judge less and it's just where we're
living with the echoes of reefer madness
right we're living with Harry Anslinger
and William Randolph Hearst work in the
1930 lot a lot of acting people look
them up yeah no doubt but I think that
you say they're the echoes and I think
they're pretty loud sir
they pretty loud in certain parts of the
country yeah hmm and it's it's hard to
measuring about being a congressman it's
here representing a district one of the
guys is I become really good friends
that he was a Republican congressman
name is Trey Radel and he's the guy who
got named he got from Florida he got
ready Radel he got kicked out of
Congress for buying that cocaine from a
Fed you remember that no I don't it was
like three years again I don't pay that
much attention to politics I think
politics is like baseball like some
people just watch the World Series and
some people watch College and the look
at fuckin first-round draft picks and oh
I'm addicted to it yeah I was that's
another nice thing and not having to be
live every day and not having to know
every single step of everything of going
on because you realize that you're a
very small minority of people when you
found out that thing when you were told
that thing by that guy sure this does
not always do look there's plenty of it
when you were told that thing about the
guy who was that you know the
congressman job you know that you would
you're gonna have to bribe play ball was
that
well did you feel like letdown yeah like
almost like okay I've been promoting a
rigged game because now I know how well
I know intimately how rigged the game is
it's just that you don't always know
where and who the players are now I mean
I've done enough right but isn't it
you're an honest person you're not
you're not a bullshit artist I hope
isn't I do but so if you're a part of a
bullshit system right it's almost like
you can't to be who you are you almost
like can't be a congressperson you just
no system what you just said almost made
me want to cry don't because well I get
very emotional when it when someone
pings a truth mmm that's what happens to
me I'm like Jesus I can't believe he
just said that my brother who's my moral
compass my older brother is radical like
ridiculous radically different person
he's like said just what you said right
before I came over here because the
problem with you running is that do you
really buy in to this corrupt system
and I think because I'm such an optimist
and such a positive thinking person I've
convinced myself and that I do know a
lot of people in Congress know them
personally and intimately and I know a
lot of people that work in government
that I really admire but the system it's
not the people as much as the system but
I also think that the way I don't want
to talk about it in a way that that
exonerates the public like we have to
not be apathetic that's what my show has
always been about it wasn't always a
confusing title stand up because I'm a
comic but it meant stand up for
something it meant care about something
you should be don't be apathetic the
united states of apathy we can't sit
here and blame the systems that we are
complicit and watch you watch these you
watch this fucking every weekend in Hong
Kong every weekend they stand up for
their democracy in four months right
that's the biggest story that'll be the
biggest story of the of 2019 and maybe
the decade because they are fighting off
China
it's unbelievable meanwhile I just feel
like we're just so come we're just so
comfortable and Hong Kong used to be a
part of Great Britain right yeah and
until like what 90 something when they
had to give it back after it like it was
a 100-year agreement or something like
this is so crazy
by trying to deal with China's like
listen we're not gonna bother you you
could keep doing what you're doing and
then they started bothering them and
they said no we're gonna you're ours now
now behave because that's so much more
power and leverage and then human being
stood up now they're doing it in Chile
and now they're doing it in Iraq people
are protesting and they're getting shot
the the the greatest thing that I was
ever a part of in media was probably
well there was a lot of good things but
CNN and Sirius XM's coverage of the
Egyptian revolution it was a fucking
amazing and that was some of those
organized by social medias actually
exactly the same thing in Iran and the
Green Revolution of 2009 and what's
interesting to me about this whole Hong
Kong thing is that they they're being
introduced to the government of China
over the last few
it's that this was something they were
they were separated from and then all of
a sudden they become property of China
again essentially right and so then
you're seeing this this thing where they
become accustomed to the British way of
things and near the Hong Kong original
Hong Kong way of doing things and then
things shift over it's a really unique
moment of protest because it's very rare
that you see the the actual government
of a country shift the way it has in
Hong Kong where I mean correct me if I'm
wrong well I don't I don't profess to be
an expert in revolution but this is what
the conversation is about right now it's
watching people in other parts of the
world going out in the streets risking
their lives literally and meanwhile in
America why don't we what is it that
will get us unified and and out in the
streets what is that issue and who
thinks things get us unified that's
particularly disaster yeah of course
9/11 I was in New York what I'm saying
about that yeah that was a big one I was
a Chilean Tory communicate a billion
story what I'm saying though is like
we've never seen like in our time we've
never seen a government shift over right
you've never seen that kind of a shift
where a free democratic sort of Western
way of running things all sudden shifts
over and because of that I think the the
the resistance to it is very unique I
think if you studied the British
colonization of the world there would be
a lot of that that's what we're talking
about literally because it was Britain
yeah and then I can't speak to the
specifics of the history of that but
it's what you're bringing up is a
fascinating question that I'd love to
get to the bottom of and maybe a billion
people would be so good on it well you
it's so important people stand up for
something in care yeah but I think even
with our limited understanding of the
history of it this is one thing we know
for sure they're what they used to be
under Britain and now they're not and
now they're under China and we're
watching this resistance and we're
seeing these people hundreds and
hundreds of thousands of them in the
streets yeah you know what my favorite
part of it all was there was one time
where an ambulance how to get through
and all the people from Hong Kong's just
stolen less than the right and they let
the ambulance go through and I'm like
whoa good luck with that in Boston this
fucking not gonna have a bro look at
this look at this video man I mean this
is incredible
look this is this is what my brother and
a lot of people who I respect and admire
but maybe I'm not courageous enough to
challenge our system or want to see here
no for something but what's it for well
right now I can't beat climate
well the hustle is the right versus left
right right that's the that's not in the
real hustle is the fact that people get
ideologically driven and they pick a
side and they believe you know the
problem is these fucking liberals these
fucking pussy liberals and then you know
it's a problem as these racists these
white racist assholes like yes I love
your liberal man morally man more more I
want that this is a character that
should definitely break ass shit man I
should bring him out every now and then
man it's like fucking heteronormative
bullshit right
but these characters but the problem is
these are patterns of behavior that
people slide into and that's why you
know we were talking about putting
people in boxes people love to be able
to put you in that pattern I want to
find out who you are who are you are you
a liberal well you're a libertarian are
you a mean person are you a nice person
who are you my trick for my mom when she
would be telling whoever what her son
does well he hosts the radio he's a
comedian and he hosts a radio show Oh
what's his radio show about oh he talks
about all kinds of news and issues and
politics Oh is he a liberal or
conservative they immediately want to
know that and what is a shit racist or a
cuck cuck please my mom the answer it
really is it's it's really under racial
I hope they keep it I hope no it doesn't
become racist or something you know it's
one of those words where it's like I
hope it doesn't slip away from us but we
have it right now we can enjoy it
I think it's silenced a lot of nonsense
by calling somebody a kook
you really can't it's like whoo and it's
been overused for sure but it's because
it's the not in text message is recent
and so effective
it's just got such a pop to it when
someone calls someone a cock especially
if there's a ring of truth to it you
know I like it most use when you say
something endearing I'll text my brother
he's the kind of person who will use it
maybe to me stop being such a kook I'll
be like I love you bro you saving me my
brother's like my hero I'm like he's
always there for me he wrote my first
stand-up material in high school when I
was hosting a talent show and he was
getting kicked out of the house I had no
material and I was doing Dana Carvey
impressions hosting the talent show and
I had no material and I walked out and I
see a whole script that my brother had
written Wow then let me down that's even
though he's high and drunk didn't let me
down but it's the guy's the best writing
for you I'll say something endearing to
him like that loving and then you get
back a cock like that kind of response
like when you don't yeah perfect I'm not
even actually now don't even know if he
is actually using that or if I'm just
high I'm sure used it it's a good word
back to revolution like why can't it and
what you're saying the hustle I love
that discussion because everything is
about defining so my answer my mom would
give excuse me getting back to that was
well he talks about issues so you know
that's what he talks about but they want
to pin you into something so they can
know how to feel about you to like or to
hate you are you on my team are you not
and that is destroys it is so
destructive it is and the other thing is
the resistance to what you're saying the
resistance is toxic to because people
think no it's it's important that you
take aside it's important that we deep
platform Nazis they say things like that
you're like well fucking Nazi stop look
they're real Nazis and the problem is
you start calling everybody a Nazi and
then one day you meet a real one and you
ran out of words you fucking cried wolf
this is a different Nazis and you when
people feel like you're treating them
unfairly or talking shit about them and
this is a problem we have both in the
right yeah and the left yeah they
fucking double down they dig their heels
in and they go fuck that other group
it's team red all the way fuck you it's
team blue is so destructive and watching
it is so sad and being a part of it when
we are is the problem and trying to
the answer to that the solution to that
is to try to listen to each other and to
try to understand because I completely
agree with you that they medon't feel
respected you've lost them completely on
we can't people enjoy it like a team
like when the Celtics win people get
pumped when the Republicans win people
get pumped you know it's it's like when
the Democrats win people get pumped it's
their team I had a friend of mine the
comic who said you know we got to win
the house because if we win the house we
win the White House I'm like what are
you talking about what is we what is we
are we in this are you running for
something don't know about like they
have to I do feel that way about sports
by the way bro I think when we say we've
you're not on the team it's the Giants
you're not a giant you're out here it's
not exercising and it's the same
thinking it's the same thinking people
attach themselves I remember when I was
a kid I was a big fan of this guy named
Donald Curry he was this badass boxer
this world champion welterweight
champion he was a fucking beast and then
one day he got knocked out and by this
guy Mike McCallum the Body Snatcher he
was a he was another world champion a
bad motherfucker and he hit him with a
left hook to the body and a left hook to
the head and knocked him out cold flat
on his back I couldn't believe it
he was my favorite boxer and he just got
knocked out and I felt so bad I couldn't
take it I put my running shoes on and I
ran out of the house and I ran for like
a fucking mile and I was just so worked
up I was probably like 17 I think
somewhere around then 16 17 don't
remember um maybe a little later 18th
the latest I turned around and went
walked home I ran like a mile and a half
a mile whatever I turned around I just
walked home I'm never gonna get upset
about someone I don't even know losing
like that but that was a team thing Rick
I was on Team curry and like people
really literally do that with fighters I
feel like I have a litmus test that I
feel like I fall victim to the criticism
that you're you're laying out on the
planet on environmental stuff like I
feel so panicky and so anxious about
that and I care so much about and for me
it's it is religion
like it's a spiritual connection to
nature that it brings me so much joy to
be in it and around it and professing it
and to see us destroy it by the way
we're we're living like I feeI I'm one
of those people that feels guilty about
I rail against single-use plastic which
is why I want to advocate for you guys
to get a budget you know bigger yeah we
should tank and everybody about that
because if you if you do that today if
you made that choice just get a big
thing and a glass or mugs and Salim and
raise money or something then re would
come by and dose the bucket you can't
have a bottled water around with Ari
Ari Shaffir gave gave at like a plate of
pot cookies years ago at Stan County
club my wife does not did she did she
didn't didn't now went to take it
took a sniff of it and she's like oh no
and Ari said I'm sorry she is no good
with the weed the edibles especially
when animals are rough on you she once
had like a whole KitKat because she was
hungry then went to the sink and was
washing her hands and just said this
water is so wet that's some headphones
on yeah when you look at that Hong Kong
thing right yeah you know I don't think
we need a revolution I think we need a
resolution like I think we need to click
relax and come to this understanding
like most of stuff we fight about is
because we're tricked into this tribal
way of thinking I don't mean tricked by
some overlords I mean tricked by your
own biology we have a natural
inclination to form teams and we have a
natural in because there's only two real
ones I mean you could be one of them
fucking dudes there's only independent
music and you you always vote Green
Party but for the most part there's two
parties right when it comes to like
national politics and when we think
about whoever the fuck's gonna win
whether we think about what the real
important thing is the economy or
protecting our borders or you think the
real important thing is the environment
and stopping global warming we've got to
do something to engineer like
biodegradable plastics and make the
mandatory and whatever it whatever thing
becomes your side and
you know but make arguments for both
sides the problem is people then
subscribe to whatever ideas are in that
party you know they see you could almost
pick two a person if you're pro-life
you're probably pro but when you said
you know we're doing well or you know
relax we're doing well I react to that
with working with and advocating for all
these anti-poverty organizations
what do you mean relax we're doing well
I felt like you were saying like when
everybody is getting fired up I
misunderstood you it was like I don't
think we need a revolution but I think
instead of thinking about it like a
competition between two teams greed we
should think about it as a resolution we
should resolve our issues and what our
issues is being tribal absolutely agree
that's the entire problem and I'll do
anything to work with you or anybody
else on furthering that conversation
because that's all bullshit a theatrical
manufacturer shit that you're / your
neighbor because of any number of stupid
and that we're not talking because of
that I believe that our species can do a
lot better that's normal
that's the thing it's like normal to not
like people that you know you look at
the source conservative it's normal if
you're a liberal to not like them if
you're a conservative it's normal to
think these fucking silly liberals
they're gonna ruin everything don't put
them in that box what kind of a man is
he what kind of a father that's that's
how I evaluate men or women what kind of
a partner what kind of a parent that's I
just watch them behave with their kids
Brian I don't think about what they
think about guns right if I find that
stuff out later than we talk about it
but how what kind of a role model are
you for your children is how I evaluate
another man yeah I don't know if that's
a good measure home that's what I do I
don't wanna think about what showy
watches or what kind of car he drives or
what his job is how it what kind of a
man is he what kind of a father a role
model a contributor to society does he
care about other people and other things
what is he what is his morality not not
perfect yeah I mean I don't know but
that's not that why is that is that is
that abnormal isn't that how we all
should be isn't how
LR to some extent I think this resonates
with a lot of people that are listening
there's a lot of people that try very
hard to do that there's a lot of people
that also escape the grips of tribal
thinking as they get older and wiser
sure I think I'm one of those and a lot
of people one of those I am till I hope
and I think one of the ways that you
help it is by having these conversations
so people listen and then it resonates
with them and maybe it only resonates to
a certain degree and maybe it's they
slip away from it a week later when
they're drinking and hanging out with
their friends or or their dings those
two the ideas you know very often and
when they do it's it's not as effective
as it would be if they're around people
that were like-minded but that's just
having these conversations you know
you're affecting like right now we're
affecting a lot of different people's
thinking right they're listening to this
and then go a lot of interactions could
have been different on both sides
depending upon what you did like
sometimes you run into someone in their
douchey but if you just turned around a
little bit so it's alright brother
yes and then they've relaxed and they go
oh he's okay
but if you've ramped it up and they
ramped it up more you can go that guy's
a piece of shit well yeah he acted like
a piece of shit but maybe part of the
way he act like a piece of shit was the
way you dealt with his initial weirdness
because sometimes people are just
fucking weird and sometimes people come
off douchey people are complex people
are so complex and so rooted in someone
I mean I I just go straight to
interviewing I've interviewed murderers
and rapists who feel hungry that's
murder
I sang gory I think his last name is
Shakti Singh Gore he wrote a book he
changed my life he killed a guy when
he's 18 with the prison served 19 years
and got out and wrote a book and he
redemption like he felt like how did he
get there to murdering somebody and how
did he become the man that he was that's
the way to measure a man and so he did
the worst thing so when you say you have
this idea about any number of issues
from race 2 to energy issues to guns to
abortion to feminism to all the stuff
it's like well where is where did he
start mmm who were his role models you
know there's so much data about the zip
code that you're born into in this gun
three determines where you'll be when
you're 18 and it's so accurate it's so
hard to get out of certain places I
heard you and someone talking about that
it was Dakota Meyer who was amazing that
was a love that whole interview was
fascinating really interesting guy and
nothing but respect for that guy but
talking about America as like this place
where it's the greatest place to get a
head like it's not it's so hard to get
ahead here in some spots and some spots
own and way too many spots if there's so
many reasons to you if you're talking
about impoverished neighborhoods that
have a history of crime and violence
because they don't fix that and it
doesn't change and it's really hard to
get ahead if you're in that well i but
in other places if you're doing what if
you're in a nice city and you're in a
nice neighborhood it is difficult but
it's compared to the rest of the world
it's I'm just talking about social
mobility Morgan what's up in terms of
being able to move up a rung in the
ladder okay I feel like that's only true
in impoverished areas they're riddled
with crime and drugs but that's not how
its measured but I mean but I'm thinking
if you're talking about places where
things are doing well right yeah and
you're comparing them to the rest of the
world this is one of the easiest places
to get ahead ever that's ever existed
because there's only if you start in a
certain spot if you start at the bottom
in America it's almost impossible why
the media loves to focus and Americans
love to focus on it even their stem cell
so many people say you listen I started
with nothing and and now I'm a major
success and so they don't then have
sympathy for somebody else I'm like
that's your story to tell what would
your last una tease you were your role
models what did you have did you up
healthcare
did you have universal pre-k that's like
that's the bottom line if you have
universal pre-k all over this country
this whole country would be so much more
intelligent that's what all the
education data says that's what every
other country does we don't have it but
what we do have is just so many fucked
up budget priorities the budget is a
moral document it means where your
values lie and you spend what on health
care what on defense what on anti
poverty what on nutrition what on edge
occasion yes that's how I determined by
the way in a thoughtful conversation not
only are you a liberal not argue a
liberal or conservative and you know pro
or anti-government it's how do you think
we should spend our tax money where
should we spend it around the world and
domestically and in terms of India it's
like we have this huge defense budget
with these weapons that will never be
used and Russia beat us with Facebook
and North Korea hacked into Sony it's
like that's where the threat is right
let me ask you this when it comes to
defense because that's always an
interesting subject there's two
arguments right there's this
pro-military argument that is you have
to have a certain amount of military
might all over the world we have to be
the world's policemen because if we're
not someone else will and we are
protecting America by doing this and we
fight them over there so that we can be
free over here right that's the pro
argument the anti argument would be you
could do everything that you need to do
to protect us with less money and you
could take that money and inject it into
these inner cities that are impoverished
and crime ridden and you could in my
words that's why I always like to say if
you want to make America greater what's
the best way to do that well have less
losers have less people that are losing
the game opportunity hards when they
were young give people health care and
education give them an opportunity to
succeed it's not that hard most of us
got it but the pro-military argument
would be okay that is not gonna work
that we will get fucked over by another
country and then no one will have an
advantage like we have to maintain a
certain amount of power worldwide well
I'm not this is not my argument okay I'm
just
no it's but I would reject the binary on
its face because it's a thoughtful
binary and I'd love to answer it but
it's so much more geopolitical and
filled in history and then technology
and so now I think if I am going to
answer the question it's like the threat
the threats that were fake the threat
matrix this is a way to look at it like
what are the you know existential
threats nuclear war and any kind of
geopolitical what kind of conventional
war
it's everything's online in terms of the
the way that we countries are fighting
you so it's all going on locks all
transparent well I don't know if it's
transparent it is
some worse but the point I would like to
say like how is the department of
defense not only focused on saving the
planet that's it that's it just do that
everybody wins I think it's complicated
man well I think it's way more
complicated than we would ever
understand I think to be a military
leader in 2019 to be making decisions
one way or another why not you attack
people who good luck with all that good
luck with trying to figure out how to
kill terrorists and do it live on
television while the president's
watching from the fucking Oval Office or
whatever really happened and they gave
us golf anything was golfing yeah that
was a whole weird situation how would
the picture afterwards like I know what
a posed picture looks like every single
one of those pictures it does it does
look bad when every one of those
pictures are coming all the Oval Office
is a bunch of white dudes well God wants
you to wear makeup and God wants you to
sit right there that's right God wants
that right oh we don't people don't talk
enough man there's too many of us that's
a lot of what you're leading I think
that one of the reasons why you're doing
so well is because they can't you're
you're leading the conversation about
how the conversation should be yeah I
hope as evidence from what we're saying
well so - I'm just happy people enjoy it
but the the conversations that we're not
having we're not having enough of his
face-to-face one-on-one like this
everyone's distracted you can't get to
know people over sound bites you
definitely can't get to know them
through text messages or little tiny
snippets of a conversation that they're
gonna have for the commercial they get
to know a person is very easy you just
look at their internet history you find
out what kind of porn they like oh my
god they're like great as bit I mean
it's the idea that you know Facebook
your social media is what you want
people think you're doing here's my
family and the Bahamas like if you had a
video of me melting down just smoking
weed and feeling my heart thumping and
sweating because I'm having a panic
attack it's like that's your internet
history like you're looking up every
lump that you find mm-hmm right and you
go down weird rabbit holes you find out
about strange diseases okay very
unhealthy all day today about minor
things was what I saw your tweet about
that I was like now don't put it out
don't put it out there it's interesting
as hell it's terrifying because the idea
like I always get so worried especially
that one because it's like rot trail
running is my favorite way to run I love
it too and this way then you got eyeball
worms man but kids are terrified to go
outside there's some amazing
organization children and nature Network
everybody should discover and support
and and look up the work of Richard Louv
who's just written a new book about
relationships you'll love it with
animals and humans and he wrote a book
her last child in woods is my Bible
changed my life and kids are afraid to
go outside because there's ticks there's
Lyme disease there's parents afraid that
there's kidnapping no there isn't
that is definitely Lyme disease well
yeah but you just be vigilant yeah but
Lyme disease is really it's a horrible
pressing several people I live in
Rockland County me too horrible don't
get me wrong but we can't not send our
kids outside no I agree cut your lawn
and check your kids for ticks right yeah
you gotta be vigilant but the kids have
to stay out they have to be outside to
appreciate you know dried ya know the
connection to nature that's what it's
all about it so it all works together
the idea that we're drinking out of
bottles that are made of petroleum and
that's what plastic is this is gonna be
here for 700 years unless we melt it and
make cool shit out of it let's take some
ideas well go to the calls do you know
boy onslaught is he's that guy oh yeah
the guy collecting the plastic yeah
that's kid I was going to make everybody
else look he's like accomplished like 19
he's like I am 18 and I'm going to take
all of the plastic out of the ocean like
what as I do and I was bashing mailboxes
the first one didn't work it was like he
didn't know shit he's like yeah that one
is a prototype we're trying to make it
work look the next one works he's still
only twenty shear fur hanging now people
are hating on why all we have why are we
tribal on getting plastic getting rid of
this horrible single-use plastic wood
because it's connected to ego because
someone who's 19 years old figured out
how to do some shit that you've never
figured out how to do he's a better
person in you fine
no it's fine it's a game I'm no you're
not
that's why you're happy when his machine
breaks like haha never
I don't know that mentality I don't
understand
that mentality that that that one roost
and if I understand it but I don't feel
it I'm not rooting for your pain if I
don't like your opinions I don't want
you to get sick
I don't want you to even get your finger
crunch in the garage door I don't want
you to have pain I think it's the same
sort because of your valise it's the
same thing that leads people to be
tribal it's also leads people to be
jealous it's the same kind of thing it's
like a pattern of thinking that's easy
to slide into it's like a a well-oiled
shoot you just you can break you can
ignite you can name that and acknowledge
it for your kids that's what you're
doing that's what I'm doing hopefully
like that's what that is don't fit all
into those veins people I think by the
way are mostly good all day yes all day
most of my interactions I'm walking out
the door with this lady out of the bank
and we both work at the same time we're
both like oh sorry both our faults have
a good one little smiles like that's
most interactions that I have at least
but us I'm very attractive you're a
handsome man I agree with you though I
think that's that is the case and and
also it has to do with how you interact
with those people and we've all been
guilty of being loaded up in one way or
another interacting with someone and it
doesn't go as well as it could have gone
if you were in a better place when you
met that person it's all about reactions
it's the second time you you mentioned
that and that's the most important thing
I've learned in therapy and with my wife
it's if you choose how to react to a
situation or a comment and everything
rides in that reaction potentially your
life mm-hmm I figure which book it is
whether it's it's one of those ancient
philosophy books but I've never forgot
this term nothing has any meaning other
than the meaning that you give it yeah
it's whatever it is tragedy or positive
thing look Fisher it's a tragedy it's
very difficult it's not what we see is
how we see it yes but talk regular
moments in your life like the worst case
scenario for a person is approaching any
moment in their life and being like woe
is me
goddammit why is it always happen to
happen to me why the instead of having a
perspective like look how lucky I am
that my real concern to someone keep my
car the reason and I look at that and I
say why is that person always saying
blow is me why I yeah but why where's it
come from the natural pattern it's like
it's a role modeling that's why you have
to give people an opportunity to break
out of that we are so evolved we are so
far probably too evolved that we've
created plastic bottle that we're
killing ourselves you know but we're
killing ourselves with plastic balls
we're seven billion people there's just
too many people that's a lot do you buy
into the argument that the more
westernized or the more advanced society
gets the population actually starts to
decrease because there there are certain
cities that they point to where that's
on the trend I think Japan I think Tokyo
is one of them but the idea is that as
people as a civilization advances people
decide to pursue careers before having
children and less and less people have
children and that there's some sort of a
direct correlation with the amount of
children people have versus the amount
of technological advancement is around
them and the amount of Education and
yeah the level of the city like if
you're an around a place like me it's
generally education yes
yeah education base because it's - I
think affluence has something to do it
is well affluence usually comes with
education sometimes usually you could be
any nut you could have examples of
people who came from absolutely nothing
in general art the fact that overcame
and to become you know a CEO of
McDonald's and then have to step down
because their own business isn't sure
you know yeah I mean a lot of it and
nothing but certainly I have nothing but
I look at someone who's started a
business and ran a business from a
dry-cleaning store to it whatever
they're doing my dad owned a an
insurance agency in Syracuse New York
that's what my dad did and my mom was a
public schoolteacher and it's like so I
saw the public and private sector that
was my role model that's a good
combination to to grow up with and I had
health care and I had nursery school my
mom was a early childhood at she had an
associate's degree my dad didn't go to
college
shout-out to my pop by the way I just
had a heart attack and ruined his eye
how bad the Czar can't see how it's not
surgery number three
dude just wrapped up forty four years as
a ski instructor oh and he's a
competitive sight
list ripped up broke every bonus body's
fucking man steal what is the damage to
the eye that doesn't want him to see I
can't explain it but it's a laceration
he was on his you know blood centers he
fainted and bounced his face off the
table mmm lacerated his eye has a big
impact on whether or not he heals quick
right oh yeah and he's all filled blood
so he can't see out of it and my dad is
like oh my dad is a very physically
healthy guy so it's at aging man it's
tough I mean that's where my situation
is my mom and dad married 48 years but
that's you know my dad I look at my dad
and I he's a great story in America he
didn't go to college he started his own
insurance agency did well supported us
we live in the suburbs
Marsalis New York it was crazy about
America it's only 300 years old and the
idea of a new America is out of the
fucking question right the idea of
someone coming along the millions of
years of life on this planet and the
hundreds of thousands of years of being
humans and that 300 whatever almost
years of the United States if someone
said we're gonna start a new country now
and some we found a new spot in New
Zealand or Greenland or something you
like fuck you you can't do that you
can't do that today will say do you
think I think everything's changing
everything is changing but if first of
all anyone who people would be super
suspicious well yeah if you were gonna
start a new country there you go that
guy's just gonna fall all the women ah
well there's a lot of that I mean that's
that's a lot of the world right now yeah
well that's a lot of why you would start
your own country yeah but that's why
that has almost probably always been
this is a reason that's been leader
right there would have to be someone who
says listen this is how we're gonna do
this we're gonna we're gonna have like
an open-ended Constitution we could
amend it whenever we see fit instead of
having a present well have a counsel I'm
not I'm all for a blown up system and
redoing it to make it more equitable
however you describe I'm gonna need
nukes okay cuz the North Koreans are
fucking around the Russians are always
shifting those Chinese man they're
plotting things I think they're gonna
try to cancel our internet a fact that
we haven't
Chancellor you made it sound like
through the cable company record the
fact that we haven't had an accident who
is it schlosser Eric Schlosser wrote
this book and documentary is fascinating
history of accidents and close calls is
nuts and we got it we got to get rid of
all nukes yeah like all thinking people
believe that it's so crazy that was a
horrible statement what I just said by
the way long that's by the way a great
example of a condescending thing for a
person to say into a microphone well
thinking people think blank stop it but
it's also one of those things where it
doesn't help to say it even if it is
correct it is true all thinking people
agree with me no one is gonna go wow I
didn't I don't want to be considered a
nun exactly that's why Pete yeah that's
why I nailed it's like but it's like
people yelling into a microphone what is
wrong with you you must be an unthinking
personally I don't want to be yelled at
a day this girl once when I was 21 and
she'd get upset about shit she was older
than me and she was smarter than me too
but uh she would she got upset once and
I said we just please just please relax
she goes no one who's upset ever wants
to hear you saying relax then doesn't
work hmm I thought about that I was like
damn she's right that doesn't work
someone says relax relax doesn't work it
just doesn't work like dude you don't go
thank you
I mean sometimes you do but you have to
be not very wound up and you have to
really love the person who's telling you
to relax no it's a it's an absolute
condescension yeah I've done that a
hundred times to my wife she nails me
every time mm-hmm every time I remember
thinking that's a 21 year old Savage
going on Carl sheesh uh okay she's right
that makes sense yeah I don't wanna have
that either
that's varies but that's called being
open mind and being vulnerable being
able to check your in with yourself as
opposed to being this kind of
authoritarian beast of don't you tell me
this is my castle like I don't
understand that kind of whatever you
want to call it I don't I don't want to
even name it it's just an attitude that
we have to our generation of men is so
much more vulnerable
I think yeah yeah first in our parents
and so much more open mind and sensitive
and it has nothing to do necessarily
with sexuality
as I do with human growth and evolution
and realizing that's your actually week
to pretend that you're strong absolutely
yeah
they that somehow you don't feel too
dressed in your PTSD as a combat veteran
is somehow seen as weak it's like no
that's if you're taking on your worst
nightmares that strength and by the way
how do we measure strength I mean it's
always about what you can lift not the
pain you can endure which is why I think
if you're measuring strength by gender
women can endure more pain so that's one
measure of strength but more importantly
that's whatever you overcame in life
that's the measurement of strength not
how you can force yourself I mean I'm a
small guy so that's a small guy
mentality before I taught on my way out
of every you know my dad's like just
when you walk into that class you make
friends with the biggest kid in the
class and I've done that my whole life
so that's I just talked my way out but
well whatever works but not that an
authoritarian way in a way that you're
saying and way that you think to say
when you say any thinking person agrees
with that that is a version of saying
relax oh yeah it's the same for sure is
it perfect no no as a perfect analogy
absolutely it's we could do a whole long
story about condescending remarks
especially in marriages or any
relationship in this conversation if
I've put you down and the way that
you're thinking it's like the whole
conversation then changes to respect my
yeah my intellect my experience and it's
like the conversation gets gross
yeah and ineffectual and damaging which
that's the easy way that's how you sell
ads that's how you create ratings so
crazy
this show does pretty good we don't do
that you you know exactly exactly the
the thing about like online
conversations is that you don't have
this interaction like we're having like
this is probably more intimate than a
regular conversation because we're in
each other's ears right we're wearing
I prefer headphones yeah I wish all of
life was this way I don't want this to
stop - all the time it's - it's too
narrow focus but it's good for company
what I want I will sit here and put
anybody in those head relaxed contacts
everybody just common would agree with
me relax calm down Joe would you calm
down Joe Rhodes my favorite thing to say
when someone's not
worked up you're working with the person
in a corporate yeah you know it's
serious a CNN oh and they're not at all
worked up they're like hey do you want
me to send them over calm down okay
like I was what he talking that wasn't
totally normal um what percentage of
people that you worked with run at all
oh my god I wish I know I thought
everybody around me was on something
what do you think antidepressants I
thought would you think it would be a
high number had a role I don't know I
don't know anything about adderall I
know a lot about and I hear a lot about
xanax and antidepressants anti-anxiety
'z yeah none of which I've ever put in
my body
those are spooky I think some people
need them I think for some people they
have a bad chemical makeup I mean this
is just a fact just like some people
have thyroid cancer right some people
have there's a missing link there's
something wrong with the way their
brains firing and this is just a
biological issue because we're you know
we're not you know situational
depression sure invite yo n hari writes
about that in this new book and there's
been a lot of really great work written
about academic research on and the
academic research on neuro psychology my
understanding is that it's like we know
so little about the brain we're very
early and trying to understand if so
these medications like right now dealing
with like career like that much career
transition right and think about running
for Congress didn't with my dad that to
me is not a reason to take an
antidepressant that's that's no you work
well now you just hit it hard and you do
what you do and you don't make excuses
and you just we just work my friend
Jordan Peterson had an issue where his
wife was she developed liver cancer was
very idea yeah very scary I did not know
that about him I know of him and his
work but I didn't I know that I'd she
was very very sick and he you know
they've been together since high school
who loves her dearly
I started freaking out so he got on
something what was it called colon open
oh yeah yeah I'm familiar and I've heard
of it
no she had a miraculous recovery
everybody's happy about that but they're
really really yeah that's amazing
shit surgery oh wow but he'll get a
transplant I don't know
but he had a really difficult issue with
the klonopin really oh he used it to
deal with that situations and what was
the issue well he was going through
severe withdrawals and he turned himself
into a rehab
oh yeah that's a night here that's a
very I have a family member who did
everything including heroin and it's so
great to hear already on the show
because I I called up Artie when he was
doing heroin to ask him how serious it
was he goes let me ask you two questions
all right he goes is you have like a
good life either a job or kids or
anything I was like now he's just a
single guy and he goes is he shooting it
or snorting it he's shooting it he goes
I can't help you like that the worst
that's true that I have so many already
stories yeah on the road with him for so
long but so nice to see him doing why
yeah yeah he's doing great I mean really
yeah he certainly seems so already Colin
he was one of my closest friends my wife
and I spent a lot of time with him and I
loved him to death and I'm his story is
the most remarkable stories one of the
most remarkable stories and comedies one
of the funnies he's one of the kings of
comedy and I he's a close brother of
mine for a long time so watching him
with you I can't wait to see him yeah
this guy got 17 numbers for him I'll
give you the real one for you let's be
no greater storyteller alive
he's up there he's no no greater Yogi
Berra was good his fucking stories dick
Cavett's pretty good jazz fingers to
like movement with his fingers like he's
like he's got a little show he's doing
there's a lot happening he's a performer
he gets it he gets it all oh yeah I was
waiting in the wings he's gone out I
opened for him I come back they play the
who which song that he came out to and
he just at his heaviest just falls back
into me and I had a brace you know I'm a
tiny muscular guy I like push him back
up and literally push him onstage he's
like zoning off like falling asleep out
there that's hilarious I mean there's
just so much to see him and his recovery
should give everybody hope it should
give everybody hope
it's interesting to cuz I like that it's
running yeah yeah he but Artie is that
tapas game and really excited to see him
and one of the funniest guys and one of
the most generous guys man
you helped everybody it was too much I
would tell him like you can't he was
subdued that guy supported so many
comics in ways that were like beyond
generous the way that you do by the way
by the way that you do I want to see his
stand-up I'm gonna see it I wonder where
he's at because no I know he's doing
only gigs around the New York area but
I'm thinking about if I have to go to
the East Coast I'm thinking about taking
a trip I just wanted to see you there
yeah because like see him now it's like
all the years that I've known him he was
always fucked up yeah I was on a road
and I'm a lot of that time I witnessed a
lot of stuff it was just be hanging out
he'd be gone all day like we're we're in
Vegas by the pool at his Cabana and he
wasn't with us like where's the king man
he's never gonna come down did you see
the hooker maybe I mean yeah I wouldn't
hung out with us either don't get me
wrong but it was a nice day we wanted a
hand with him he's got through on the
other side I just hope he could stay on
this side yeah but the point is Artie is
a is not he's an aberration he is an
exception for any number of reasons he
have to be one of the most talented late
funny people that he just can't fail cuz
everyone's to be around him to be with
him but and see him perform but drugs in
this country whether they be
antidepressants of the opiates like
that's something we should come together
around as well
and we're medicating you know I think
far too much I love for you to talk to
my friend dr. Aaron Carroll who's
written so many H for the New York Times
he's got a amazing YouTube channel beg
you to have him on the show because he
tucks just so he's a research expert and
there's so much to talk with him about
in terms of all the stuff supplements
fasting and nutrition and you absolutely
love him I want everybody to know
buddy's work is he a doctor yeah he's a
pediatrician at Indiana University
School of Medicine he contributes in New
York Times he's got this YouTube channel
like it's called healthcare triage
she's really smart guy and he does all
he's just really great at explaining
research is his thought that people are
over medicating I'm not sure I don't
wanna speak for him you know it's a
tricky one right I think it's a those
words no I mean let people get very
resentful about that number one don't
tell me I'm a bad parent or a bad person
this helps works for me
ya know I mean we gotta be careful gotta
be very easy on the judgment with all
that whatever I kind of feel whatever
gets you through the day well I don't
know how your brain works
like to pretend to pretend that your
brain works like my brain and I know for
sure that if I was inside your head I
would be thinking the way I think in
there impossible amen
I don't know what it feels like like I
know I have a baseline right when I'm
healthy
well I Know Who I am I'm that guy right
but if could you imagine being someone
else other than who you you what you
know and what you're comfortable with
you can't that's the chemical makeup of
a different person you can't know what
anybody's going through in their day
imagine if you were a woman you were on
your period I have feels like often I
thought about that quite I thought about
it all I never thought about to just
know I don't you have daughters yes what
I never thought yourself having a period
or having premenstrual syndrome yeah
that's a sounds like very little fun
PMS sounds like a real bummer yeah once
you get to become a cut the whole
situation let everybody know in advance
I want to take calcium tablets I'm gonna
do my best but when the storm comes
imagine I try to just be aware of that
but my wife and I are not usually the
same baseline regardless of what's going
on it doesn't affect everyone I don't
know if maybe it does but it's something
to be sensitive about because something
and we don't have to deal with you know
what I hated is I got a vasectomy and
this idea that any guy would ever not do
that is bizarre to me it's the greatest
thing I highly recommend it population
control and no more condoms in your wife
should never have to put a drug in her
body or cut you know iron tube that's
horrific las' I guess you're just giving
birth maybe but I'm very Pro vasectomy
do you think that we're gonna come with
time there's gonna come a time in
America where there's too many people
when we have like a delhi india types it
i think that is the case in too many
communities right now and impoverished
communities that there's too many people
for the resources that's how you measure
it it's not I mean how do you measure
too many people congestion overabundance
of traffic like look right now in LA
when I come home from the 405 or get
home from the airport I'm driving home
on the 405 I'm like wow yeah this is my
first experience on it there's it's ten
o'clock and it's bumper-to-bumper off
for miles and miles and miles asked
where's everybody going if that's
another way to define poverty well
there's a lesson in two a great
conversation like ours but even then
it's not worth it
how dare you it's not worth it being
stuck in that if you will see one thing
is being stuck in it the other thing is
being stuck in it every day I mean it's
horrible for your body to sit there will
do when I stopped commuting at this
driving neck pain every day 43 and like
a knife every day I stopped community
gone gone gone absolutely sitting in a
car yeah you got to try to offset that
if that to someone do something you have
to deal with because it's really hard
but it's a that's I I think that having
right now in America in many communities
there are not enough resources for the
people that are living there in terms of
healthy food and access to education and
health care that's Joe that's how I
define like morality of a society how we
take care of each other sure and we all
don't have the same access in this
country I urge people to study poverty
and not get caught up in the tribalism
of the argument of why people are in
poverty know there's a long really
interesting and important field of study
and there's a whole bunch of
anti-poverty people that I love talking
to and it wouldn't be by anti-poverty
people they're just working to you know
to poverty on with using private-public
any number of different resources
you know solving the problem yeah that's
one thing that I think morally we we
fucked up with with not having health
care available to everybody readily
easily and if you're going to pay for
things we're going to decide that we're
a community right we're basically a
community of 300 whatever million people
who got it two things got to educate
people and you got to take care of the
sick
and you should have food figured out
right but we don't have yeah those
things now one of them was terrible the
education system in inner cities is
often terrible right the the food thing
is a fucking mess food stamps is a mess
right education system you know in
tribal communities we nobody ever talks
about tribal communities I've done a lot
of work with them and I keep saying that
by the way I'm no no but like just like
advocating you know the type of stuff
that I know that you do and just trying
to understand what they do and write and
advocate for the solutions and tribal
communities and impoverished communities
are all over this country in rural areas
and obviously in urban areas we have a
lot of it and we can solve those
problems but being divided the way we
are on not understanding the root of
poverty Michelle Alexander's the new Jim
Crow takes on racial injustice and mass
incarceration you just read that book
you'll be a completely different person
understanding history well the things
that we need to drive along order to
establish the average over for sure I
mean that is when is that gonna happen
where are we our generation has
agreement about that and that and that
shit legalize all of it all of it
legalize it regulate it anything anybody
wants to do what we all have been doing
what's going on in Mexico right now is
nuts it's crazy and that's because of
our demand for it we're directly
connected to their problems that's just
basic economics and commerce legalize it
it's not gonna solve it they're gonna
end a drug cartel if they're always
gonna be there yeah but don't simplify
this problem and don't demonize it name
it and solve it we've just been so much
loss and pain it's got to end yeah it's
a Chan whoever gets elected as present
has to stop with this punitive justice
bullshit where you punish people for
their behavior I just heard about this
kid who got caught with weed in this car
in high school it's principal threw him
off the golf team and his dad was like
why would you do that why would you not
let him do the thing that he loves
that's not that you know I'm just gonna
get sit around all day he's doing a
great thing don't did this idea of
punishment is changing your behavior
like we can get beyond that I think we
can get beyond them we certainly can
especially weed for a kid nobody's
consequences for kids like spanking your
kids it's pretty story historic but I
mean what you're talking about when it
comes to this kid with weed is it's
completely absurd do you think you would
either kicked off we got caught having
shot of Jack Daniels would have gotten
kicked off a team for life if you know
something happened at a party and he
wound up having a shot of vodka with his
friends well so I should say had a
bucket of grenades and passenger seat as
well Joe and a pat buchanan's love
grenades now that's what it was it was
your absolute that's all that's all it
was decision is an asshole well yes of
course whether well hold on their
judgment is clearly wrong
yes but minimizing them as an asshole it
is an asshole no man so moving but as
you're taking a kid and you're ruining
is lunch right I don't want to be an
asshole or try to understand why that
person made that decision in
administration why the system has that
kind of punitive component to it I mean
it's you know whole incarceration the
capital punishment only in America if
all the civilized that's so horrific
it's stupid and expensive and now even
you know most conservatives now agree
that that is the case and when hopefully
I'm drumming it out well but it's
praising the penalty for mass murderers
doesn't matter gain it doesn't matter
what they did Joe because I can't prove
if you give 1% if the numbers are like
4% of people who are killed were
innocent that percentage everybody
agrees is way too high some people like
if it was only 1% in the in the
community it debates these issues but as
long as it's four percent of people are
innocent you can't have that system for
that reason regardless the penalty a and
B no one's thinking when they're
murdering someone about what the penalty
for murder is gonna be that's not why
they're doing it doesn't it does not
work as a deterrent there's a ton of
research on that it's silly it's silly
then you think well if I'm I'm not gonna
murder this person because I'm gonna go
to jail for like that's not why you
don't murder somebody no nobody wants to
murder another person but what do you do
with that person do you just put them in
a cage for the rest of their life
no you rehabilitate them Wayne Gacy yes
or you take no Fox kids and kills them
now if you can't hole in his basement
and leaves the kids there
if you can't rehabilitate him you put
him in a humane
cage you don't kill him that's what I
mean but you're killing him you're just
killing him real slow with life you're
separating him from freedom and you lock
him up in a cage you have to separate
him from freedom if he's raping kids I
agree with that right yeah but if you
know for that you can rehabilitate but
hold on you're killing them either way
you're either killing them with nature
and time or you're gonna kill them so if
you're gonna leave him in this in this
cage it is innocent that's almost worse
than killing them if you kill him it's
quick if you're gonna leave him in that
cage and he's actually one of the four
percent that sounds or letting him kill
himself okay you're not gonna let him
kill himself yeah give him a gift it's
like here's a rope if you can you can
make a rope swing and I'll give you a
swing and you can swing on it if you
want that's what I get that I mean I
don't but the problem is you're trying
to find a binary answer to a messy
question no I don't think it's a messy
question my answer is no I don't I don't
believe in the state by the way if
you're the state execute that's the
state executing people yeah by John
Wayne Gacy maybe I found your kid in the
basement of John Wayne Gacy's house you
wouldn't want him dead I can't deal with
that hypothetical I can't either I'm not
I'm not I'm not doing that for someone
else and I'll say yes John Wayne Gacy
definitely killed a lot of people's kid
I don't think the people this is
worst-case scenario right we're playing
no no yeah absolutely
it's a great part it's a thought
experiment it's a hypothetical and I
just wouldn't if someone was in that
situation if you know they're of a
parent in Newtown I think a lot of those
parents I mean this guy who was killed
in the Charleston Church shooting I
don't say these maniacs names into
microphones because but the Charleston
shooting premises want to start civil
war shut all those black people it's
Obama went down there and sang Amazing
Grace it's lovely remember that when we
were to recover from horrible disasters
with the president singing Amazing Grace
you know well you remember those people
forgave that shooter they forgave him
for killing all those black people
forgave that white man and we're you
know the greatest role models of actual
you know Christians behaving Christian
by the way and I think that you can
forgive I think that that doesn't have
to be a religious tenant I think that
you can forgive and you can rehabilitate
but
I won't buy you know the hypothetical
situation obviously I would by the way I
would defend my I would kill anybody who
ever threatened my family
I would have no problem with that I'm
not morally against that yeah it's a
different thing yeah I mean someone that
you've got detained I'm deciding that
their life is over yeah I don't think I
don't think the state should be
responsible for that and the idea that
we would give the well state the trust
the most horrific shit is when you find
out that the DA withheld information
that would lead to the exoneration of
someone or that they're unjustly
incarcerated than one of the houses
that's one of the most horrific and
justices in this country and obviously
it's got a racial component to it and
it's horrible yeah and the justice
system is obviously that's a really
interesting thing to talk about in
constitutional law is a fascinating
thing for people studying this idea that
we argue about the Second Amendment like
let's let constitutional lawyers I think
discuss a lot of those things and we
should all understand that and be
curious about it but I would the our
Constitution is also silly like let's
remake everything like let's have that
conversation it's so much better that we
can do have a serious conversation about
what kind of guns and bullets people can
have not to thinking I have more that
they can't have like that's the
conversation that's where we should be
right now everything gets regulated
everything there are trade-offs in
health care there are trade-offs and
everything but Americans now are so
divided they want everything that they
want that compromise is something that
we don't do as Americans much less in in
government that's it's preposterous that
the Democrats that demand purity or or
anybody that is doing that you don't
agree with me you're wrong hold on
that's not no you're really you have any
relationships with people in your real
life like that like my wife and I don't
agree on about a lot of stuff but I love
her he's my door her beau that's what we
talked about before they're on teams and
you want your team to win so you state
why why do you want your team to win is
a natural thing with human beings all
right
what I'm saying about the gun thing the
most fucked up part about the messiness
of the gun thing is that even if you
made guns illegal even if you said you
can't have any bullets
you all go to jail there's so many guns
you're not getting them all it's not
possible because more guns and there are
people which means there's more than 300
and what thirty million guns there our
country alone it's absolutely great most
important point in the discussion that's
a nutty number man you really stop and
think about that number you're like what
is that real but you don't really stop
the behavior by necessarily creating
certain laws about why someone might
behave a certain way and shoot people
that's not going to necessarily change
what you do is you do limit the access
to certain types of weapons and rounds
of ammunition right yeah well the real
question is why would someone do that
right that's the number one question
like women it's a harder question to
answer the easier question answer is
make them less accessible yes if the
people who have problems we can't solve
if you could make them less success it's
the president gonna blame like I mean to
get political but like that there's no
data on the video game argument that
there's no data on that well the video
game argument is interesting because
I've had soldiers bring it up to me
including Dakota Meyer yeah I heard that
conversation I'm willing to have it I
mean I don't I don't think it
necessarily makes sense that people
would act out in a certain way that's
horrific because of video game but if
they were already inclined to violence
to begin with maybe they already had a
fucking short-circuit and then they get
desensitized to violence in movies and
violence in video games does that have
an impact on them I'm not the guy to
answer that question whether or not has
an impact on its variable its variable
that I think merits discussion I don't
know if you truly know I don't think it
is because I don't figured merits
discussion well let me make this point
then you decide if you think a merits
discussion okay the violent video games
have played at far higher rate in Japan
and they don't have the gun violence we
have it's a good point they have a very
different culture though the way you
don't have access to guns that's true
that's it that they don't also have a
lot of they've had a few months it's the
access I did I've shot guns I shoot guns
I get the
I I have nothing but respect for hunters
I grew up in a hunting community but I
mean I don't know I don't think that
there's much past the conversation about
access accessibility to guns that can
fire that many rounds that quickly
killing that many people I don't think
we have to get rid of those somehow but
I agree how do you do it yeah you're
that's the most important point is
already three hundred and thirty there's
more guns and there are people so what
do you do so by the way I think you buy
as many as you can back for sure you
spend a whole bunch of taxpayer money
just helped by the way there's a ton of
people in a bind right now that have a
rifle like oh my god I'm not gonna be a
live forward my insulin let me get rid
of this ak-47 to live another month you
buy some guns back it's a good
expenditure of money and then melt them
down and turned them into furniture for
people so if you wanted to do that
without changing the Second Amendment
like you just have a buyback where you
just offer people the opportunity to
make some money by giving their guns up
well the Second Amendment has been
interpreted wrong by the Supreme Court
in my opinion I mean it doesn't say that
people should have until 2008 it didn't
say that nobody thought that that people
should have a personal right to guns
till the Heller case but so I don't
think you even need to talk about the
Second Amendment I think just people
just need to agree that these guns
shouldn't be sold the ammunition to talk
about the Second Amendment I mean it's
it's a big Commerce know because people
can have guns you can have guns you just
can't have these guns any more no more
those ones you know all these guns no
restrictions anywhere right and they
work city you can have a handgun yeah
they work you can even I don't think you
can have a you can have a switchblade in
New York City yeah Cyrus Vance the the
DA there is like terrified that they're
changing the federal government's
changed in law because he knows that
those gun laws in New York work really
well and by the way people always make
the argument well they have those gun
laws in Chicago there's a ton of
violence that's because Chicago's in the
board of Indiana it doesn't have them
guns go across the border just fine
that's the the gun laws work they work
well Chicago is also in the middle of a
bitter drug war well yeah I mean that's
where the fines is coming from but we
should people should have less
accessibility to those types of guns
like every other civil society in the
world
come on this is like but it goes back to
what you were talking about before like
that drugs if they were legal you
wouldn't have that sort of a drug war
right for sure it's the root of most of
the violence in the inner cities and in
obviously in Mexico
yeah it's black markets it's de licit
drug yeah they're making tons of money
on that what is the second amendment
exactly as it's written the right to
bear arms shall not be infringed so how
do you think that the Supreme Court
misinterpreted that that in the que in
the 2008 alle case everybody should just
I would plug the work of Erich Segal who
said well regulated militia being
necessary to the security of a free
State come right of the people to keep
and bear Arms shall not be infringed
yeah those commas get argued by
constitutional scholars for a day yeah
the Supreme Court didn't decide until
2008 that Americans had a right to have
their own weapon that's such a crazy
statement like when you read it it's so
interesting because you we're going back
in time trying to figure out how people
in 1776 thought about guns and whether
or not that applies to us because if it
doesn't apply to us we have to think on
1789 we if it doesn't apply to us we
have to think well then who gets to
decide like one of the reasons we decide
as a society on on any one of the
reasons why it's so interesting I want
to believe one of the reasons why it's
so interesting to read these things is
like we have for whatever reason when
things get written written into stone or
carved into a stone or written onto a
document like the First Amendment like
the freedom of expression we that is
that we we have it so we all agree on it
we don't want to change it free yeah
freedom of speech freedom of expression
whatever we don't want to we want to
hold on to that we want to keep sure I
deserve all humans doing the Second
Amendment the right to have a gun that's
our law we got it written down
look look it's written there so they'll
study these ancient words like scrolls
like to go over these zeroes and look at
the commas and look at the words yeah
shall not be infringed upon what did
they mean that's fascinating it is it is
fascinating but I think that they didn't
mean this Joe I think that
they say they didn't and the the whole
gun thing is a racket to make money
that's what that is it's it's a way you
sell fear like are you I mean home
invasion is any family's worst fear but
it doesn't happen very much
nor does kidnapping nor do a lot of
these crimes at all my halaqaat our
generation of parents is helicopter
parents terrified of everything not
that's true that's not letting their
kids go outside you're right come on
thinking that your kids gonna get
kidnapped you don't know anybody okay
who had their kid kidnapped your but
you're generalizing cuz whole of Asians
do happen sometimes right but that's not
how we should make laws we don't have to
exist like everybody's gonna kidnap your
kid or everyone's gonna break in your
home but not saying those islands is
that sometimes it's real that's why
people want to be able to have guns
because sometimes someone can break in
your house and people have defended
their house and their property with guns
short but it's a it's is it a way is it
a realistic threat or is it something
that that the gun industry creates these
amazing ads and scares the shit out of
people oh come on man crime is real
whether the crime is certainly still
real I think the the clear point is the
reason why we have so many guns in
America is because there's so much money
to be made off of them I think we could
absolutely limit them and regulate them
and have a thoughtful conversation
that's where most most people are at
although I hate that generalization
there's something to that but there's
also something to the reason why we have
so many cars people are I'll have that
conversation rid of all the cars okay
well I mean we're not that's wrong that
to us why should we get rid of all the
cars do you not like freedom or do you
want you have a better solution you know
I don't have a better solution but if
there there should be one or I think
that we are killing ourselves with all
the cars the pollution is table you can
make them electric yeah then that's fine
I think I would be fine if there I have
a Chevy Volt since 2012 I have solar
panels I'm trying to be the change I
want to see in the world if I'm coming
off as act I'm a complete hypocrite and
all of it I eat meat and I do all kinds
of things I think have a thoughtful
conversation about guns and why they're
each part of our culture and not
the culture the way that other cultures
and countries regulate their weapons
that the problems that they have our
problem sure we should talk about mental
health but the problem with that
conversation that people don't want to
have is everything costs money that's
why you have to pay taxes paying taxes
is the price of civilization what does
it have to do with mental health you
have to pay for people to help people
run can't advocate in government
Republican or Democrat for the this is
what unfortunately Trump and Republicans
have advocated let's get mental health
solutions to the violence let's do that
in everybody's behind that except they
cut the Obamacare programs that funded
mental health it's just you can't do you
have to spend the money providing mental
health it is a problem it should be
addressed but it's not the main issue is
definitely the guns and the bullets in
them
well the main issue is the person that's
capable of shooting people with the guns
of the bullets now it's 3,000 the bullet
bullet are inanimate objects without a
person pulling the trigger we're talking
nonsense here they're not going to just
shoot themselves the main problem is the
main problem is some issue it will
unlock the gun it shoot people right we
agreed we both agree there's problems
with having no but don't you think the
main problem is the person who actually
shoots me I think that in every other
country in the world they don't have
this problem because they don't have the
gun that's my where I start an end on
the argument okay why is that they might
they might that might be the case that
they don't have the guns but there are
places that do have guns and they don't
have a lot of mass shootings Canada is
one of them right okay I don't know they
don't have the type of guns we have up
there have a lot of guns they do but
they don't have a K 47s with unlimited
rounds they don't have that that's crazy
guns they're awesome I get it do you
think there are more or less limitations
to what firearms are allowed to have I
believe the Canada
I believe the Canada Canadian gun laws
are far stronger more regulated just
tried something some some really
recently Trudeau announced something
that was going to severely limit this is
very recent new severely limit the type
of firearms you could have including
things that can have multiple rounds and
chambers and certain types of guns that
are used right now as hunting rifles and
so it was a big pushback about that this
was really obviously there's always
gonna find that the conversation about
like like the the freedom like the the
Second Amendment to me is it's just your
interpretation fine whatever your
interpretation is is that's what's
interesting it's a health care issue and
they and they it's so extreme it's
really if you want to know the answer to
health care is you should talk to public
health experts they have those answers
they have the research but but we hold
on what research on one well they don't
have research on they don't have enough
research on gun violence unfortunately
about then I'm talking about if you want
to know the solutions for what is
impacting and creating death by any
measure accidental death but we're
talking about gun violence right health
care professionals have the solutions to
gun violence I think a lot of healthcare
solution I think I think certainly
surgeons have argued for why certain
ammunition has destroyed the inside of
the the body and unsurvivable I think
public health officials have argued
certainly pediatricians all argued this
idea that you can't ask a parent if they
have a gun in the house because the gun
lobby is against that because they're
building this conspiracy that the
government is going to track your gun
that's terrible your pediatrician has to
ask you do you have a pool where do you
keep the poison where are the guns
because god forbid you you're not
responsible not for educated enough to
know that that kid might accidentally
get that gun and it happens all the time
there's a rule against that
yeah public health officials and doctors
and physicians are pretty much on the
same case with this issue these guns and
mental health I think experts too I I
don't know maybe there's a large
disagreement and if there is I'm happy
to be wrong about this or any dumb shit
I've said well what you're saying is
that these public health officials would
be able to make these guns less lethal
by banning certain types of ammunition
because it's destroying people and
checking to see if the parents know if
they have a gun or where the gun is or
how its treated how it's locked up like
that they shouldn't I mean how do you
feel like public officials public health
officials yeah could have any impact on
that well public health experts are you
know their entire responsibility people
safe from right say
isn't that my baby look someday he'll
it's if you have any bullets at all
they're lethal right so do you want to
have bullets that are less lethal I
think that could be a law for sure what
is lethal yeah it's a to human bodies
yeah we shouldn't be killing each other
with bullets all time a bullet will stop
anybody a blunt or but whatever it is I
don't understand the arguments about
ammunition but the point about well you
shut up that's why I brought it a fine
public health experts will look at what
is creating sickness and death okay car
accidents what I'm saying to you is that
I think it's disingenuous to say that
public health officials have an answer
to why we're having so much mass
violence I don't think anybody has an
answer I think we're terrified and I
think we could say it's if they didn't
have guns he wouldn't be able to do it
and you're right and I could say if we
do these people weren't mentally
handicapped or filled with a handicap
mentally compromised filled with all
kinds of demons all offensive demons
also different medications that are
fucking with their judgment maybe yeah
abuse all sorts of spirits in childhood
there's a lot of factors sure no one no
one has any idea why someone who is
abused and who's fucked up is capable of
making that leap we have some thoughts
on it that's all we have some thoughts
on it and we talk about it endlessly and
yeah yeah you're right if no one had a
gun there would be no issue with that
you wouldn't be able to mass shoot
people but would we still have fucked up
people that are lashing out trying to
hurt people I think we always will but
we have misaligned mental health we have
to fun no one's research yeah a lot of
people are no I'm not I think you should
I think we should not only should become
people the way we thank mental health we
it should be a top priority yeah I think
we should think about having four hour
work days being mandatory done I think
we should help people I think you know
they just didn't experiment Microsoft
did in Japan in fact
and they found that a four hour a
four-day workweek rather increased
productivity by 40% yeah I think a lot
of people I don't know maybe this is
their culture or maybe this is a
specific instance the type of people
that would get a job at Microsoft but
you know what what you're dealing with
from most people is beaten down shells
that are touched by all that together go
back to the gun argument argue for the
4-hour workweek and any other type of
benef
it's civilized nations around the world
especially in Scandinavia have studying
that culture is really interesting in
what they do yeah and and you realize
that there's any number of things that
you can do to help people and how do you
you have to be able to fund those
solutions and people don't want to do it
right people don't pay more taxes but
they also have a distrust and the way
the government spends their money so but
I met catch-22 I'm sorry even if they
wanted things to be better they don't
trust the government to spend their
money like if you work hard and you make
X amount of dollars the government it's
always a fair argument but there's not a
bet necessarily a better way fine I give
you that argument but that we have to
come together as a society angry this is
how we're gonna spend money on the fire
department on schools and so on yeah
well no one's arguing yeah but the rest
of the world why is so many other places
Scandinavia happier than us one of the
reasons is we have to worry about
getting shot we should not have to worry
about that we have to worry about health
insurance we should not have to worry
about that we have to worry about
getting paying for our education those
are things that and other people in
other countries don't have to be as
concern about that they're happier
they're more relaxed well they're also
way smaller
it's like versus the entire United
States of America and you're all are you
right but that's not how you study you
know socioeconomic says something
different about the size of the country
insurers but it's a huge factor it's
affecting the way people behave I mean
they've done studies where they've taken
cameras and they put them on opposite
ends of the street and they can tell by
how fast people walk and they can tell
by how many syllables they say in a
minute exactly the number of people that
are in that city yeah there's a direct
correlation between large groups of
people yeah and hostile behavior fast
thinking moving quickly talking quickly
being impatient all those things
contribute to a less healthy society
sure when you deal with a small country
that has less people you have less of
that but it but it's it still doesn't
change the idea even if we disagreed on
that that looking at how other nations
societies neighborhoods by the way
forget about that now don't make about
America
what's this city over here doing what's
this community doing over here with
mayors are working together really
effectively to solve problems cities
they have these these unions all the
time he's coming together and they're
doing a lot of good where communities
can copy other commune
but if you look if we so often talk
about our national system and that's
generally what we're talking about with
many of these issues here you look at
skin and eve people are happier they're
why I don't know if that's true why is
that there's so much research that
they're happier what does that mean
because if you don't have to worry big
big giant generalization there's got to
be some depressed people it's candy
there are of course don't give me your
on to it their society they have all
kinds of problems there's places in the
United States they're happier than other
states yes to educational health care
you can't also environment it's also or
the beauty of their surroundings whether
or not it's a small town or a large city
yep yeah I mean this place is like
Boulder Colorado super healthy happy
places yeah but there's 100,000 people
there right that's how it's gorgeous
weenie I think that's we had to
radically change the way that we live in
our communities and I think there's so
much interesting conversation we had
about sharing everything you know the
car the car comes pick you up whenever
you need it and all that you can still
have your own car whatever but just the
idea of ride-sharing home sharing
communities having something that you
could have you could through technology
you could just have no your gonna share
your house with somebody but a community
look at the butts of the future
surrounded by there's a place called
Serenbe down south it's got Biophilia
design and everything is like renewable
the way they live everybody has just how
you describe is like a small - every is
always on foot walking communicating
surrounded by nature exercising is
definitely better when you can get that
if you can get that this is hard to
sustain large groups I mean they're
absolutely there's no getting away from
the number of people we have here you
know and then I call so like you're the
group the less Minds you have that you
interact you were talking with somebody
that scientist who lives in a van it was
a fascinating question and I feel like
he's my boy point about he's gray it was
great I was stealing my parents basement
listening that show and he talked about
or you did maybe Moore's Law is that
wasn't he talked about us well that was
pretty interesting I never heard
anything like that but about it's only
you have to have a certain amount of
people before kind of chaos
no no corruption no notice it oh that's
that was Dunbar's number
Dunbar's number is a hundred and fifty
people Moore's law is the law that
pertains to technological technological
improvement yeah yeah the Dunbar's know
the rate of improvement of how
technology and that's going straight up
and that's fascinating and Andrew yang
understands that and Joe Biden doesn't
that's a huge issue
Dunbar's numbers the amount of people
that you can keep semi intimate
relationships with and it seems to have
a direct correlation between ancient
tribal structures and the fashion about
that they think it's about 150 people
and more or less I'm sure people very
like the very and everything else
intelligence height people varying and
everything but but a the this number
seems to be fairly consistent that you
can't really have more than 150 people
in your life don't you think Thanos was
right in a way with them yeah ya know if
that's the problem with that movies
Thanos had a point right yeah he's a
piece of shit but he had a point the way
he went about it was wrong yeah he's a
dickhead he killed a lot of people he
snapped that everybody died and then he
wanted to live on his own Island like an
asshole
planet and his son would always set in
his face fuck and James Brolin oh I was
glad when Thor fuck tomorrow or my
daughter got to interview the
co-directors as part of male chose my
favorite Josh Brolin by the way what did
I say James
they're both handsome they are but yeah
Santos and but the idea that's a bit the
idea of balance do you think about that
like all this stuff that we use and we
consume the way that we live I'm all
about that a lot yeah I do and I'm happy
when someone like boy onslaught comes
around that has like a real legitimate
solution that could be implemented at
large-scale and could eventually be a
gigantic solution not only that but a
source of resources so what about just
elastic and it's plastic instead of
being a detriment can be used to work at
certain things maybe the money could be
used from the sale of that plastic and
it would go to charitable causes maybe
it could actually be a positive net
benefit to the earth what if someone
comes along with some technology they do
that why do we have in this country an
argument about the future of energy in
the way that we live and how to create a
better renewable future like I have no
idea why we are everybody wins
we can't load of money the argument is
that if you invest in
a green new deal that that is a
socialist idea that's a bad idea in any
way no everybody will get rich or we're
all gonna die I don't think that's what
the pony think of that sly nari
everybody it's like we're gonna die
either I think fear monger he's not
helping anybody either I think you're
right about he's gonna get shittier I
mean I think that's probably what Trump
wanted to buy Greenland he's like I got
an idea
that was let's get up there and watch
him move see but it would've been
amazing if he pulled it off however much
time that spent corner
it was brilliant because came out of
nowhere - well because he really knows
how to play the media he's like having a
bad days I got by Green and I know does
that sound okay and then good then we
talked about it all day on the radio and
on TV and it's like well we just lost
everything that you and I just discussed
all these really important issues not
really I think we're gonna people are
gonna solve a lot of the problems it's
gonna be thoughtful people that are
geniuses they're gonna figure out a lot
of our problems are going to solve them
doesn't mean we should give up I think
there's going to be a way that they're
gonna track carbon from the atmosphere
they have many different prototypes and
many different theories that they're
working on right yeah yeah I don't mean
it's about sound negative I'm on board
with solving the problem I just don't
want to argue I don't want to argue
about the problem I want to have really
thoughtful discussions about the
solutions and how we can do it but you
know fossil fuels have to go rapidly the
problem is also that on how you do this
but they have to go rapidly it's hard
the problem is also that the
conversation has become ideologically
driven yeah right if you're on the left
you think climate changes of the utmost
importance if you're on the right you're
supposed to at least slightly dismiss it
as I think we that's a that's a bizarre
binary of course it's the most important
thing but it's whatever we do with
everything what we do with abortion what
we do with murder
it's the planet I understand that's all
I always put it like people will be
sensitive about sexism or racism Oh easy
for you to say white guy no I'm not
dismissing what's most important
directly to you I'm looking at it in the
aggregate of our species
it's the planet the emergency bells are
ringing we have to stop burning fossil
fuels we have to do it it burns here
every couple months like crazy horrific
attack you eight think up a hellscape
should look like on film with you guys
are living through it dude I've been
here for 20 plus years
twenty
five I think 25 years it's never been
like this where every four or five
months of fire erupts and there's a
feeling that you have when a fire erupts
that's real weird and explain it because
I think it's important I'm been
evacuated three different times and
there's a feeling that comes over you
like first of all there's in my case I
can only speak for myself
there's a releasing of any but like you
don't know importance is attached to
anything other than your kids and your
wife and your and you know just get the
fuck out of yeah the dog whatever you
got to do get the fuck out of there and
realize look you're a human who's doing
well living in the United States of
America you already got 4 aces just get
the fuck out of there stay alive don't
worry about your house don't worry about
your car just get out go that's number 1
and 2 is the the intense fury of nature
and when I saw the last ones when I got
evacuated last year our fucking
neighbors three of the houses burnt down
right across the street from my house so
here's my house this house this house
this house are gone and there's hundreds
of houses all throughout Malibu there
was like 600 houses burnt to the ground
man and it's a fucking terrifying scene
there was a woman we played a video
there's a woman who was trying to drive
to go get her horses and she was drying
through driving through a firestorm
screaming and filming it at the same
time in the fucking what she didn't film
I think she had one of those diam things
on what uh well I mean you have those so
you're talking about a community one
community out here and you talk about
really affluent people so they should
care there yeah but Reena yeah and like
it's hurricanes it's wildfires in the
impoverished nations are suffering the
most because they're burning the most
fossil fuels and have the least
resources and we meanwhile are having
everything we want and I think that
that's like also kind of just a holistic
spirit we should have we should use less
it's a philosophical debate for sure but
we should have it we can use less and be
happy or even in so many different ways
I'm not sure I don't think that's gonna
stop the fires though
I don't know what you're saying fires
are coming because it's getting warmer
no its climate change is the issue I'm
talking about and it's in its pH but
using less it's like maybe yeah
sustainability you're using the problem
is gigantic the problem needs to be
addressed on a global scale green new
deal it's the whole thing it's not
addressed on a global scale China and
India and all these other countries that
are still polluting at a fucking rapid
rate they're not contributing to this
every one of those countries is in the
Paris climate every one of them only we
aren't yeah and we just made it official
and it's a dagger to the planet but do
not give up and fight every day to
create solutions and care about it
that's what we should be in the streets
for read Bill McKibben read no I don't
know if we need to be in the streets for
this but I think you're right y'all
think see how in the streets do you
think that's really gonna stop people
from burning coal do you think that's
gonna stop people yeah I think it's
working
I think the divestment movement has
worked really really effectively 350.org
is a very effective organization to get
the fuck you're talking like I'm arguing
with you I'm sorry I'm not dude on this
together so that's my tone I'm sorry no
it's okay no like whenever I say
something you talk like what we're
talking about here is there's forgiving
of different solutions yeah no one's
arguing with you saying don't do that
one or don't do this one what I'm saying
is we got a real gigantic problem
globally yes to just do less it's not
gonna stop these fires do let we're
already in it
it's already happening like we have to
figure out a way about ourselves you
absolutely right
that's actually probably the smartest
thing that either of us has said in this
conversation it's my issue obviously
yeah we have to adapt we have to find
solutions to adapt and a ways to live
and that's what I'm talking about in
terms of sustainability and Biophilia
design and architecture and just
infrastructure in general like we have
to to do that I feel like there's our
responsibility our kids we have to be
mobile you know one of the things that
always freaks nomads I study a lot of
ancient history and I'm really
interested in these civilizations that
they find like when you know like they
for some reason like a storm takes away
some water and moves to a different
place think
find some structure underneath the water
they didn't know existed before and you
realize oh Jesus there was a city here
one point right that's happened several
times on a factory yeah that's a good
one that's a volcano yeah there's a
bunch of these places that used to be
like during the time of the Bering Land
Bridge right there was the the water was
much lower and that was only like what
was that I don't know thousand years ago
I think there was a continent North
people don't know that that was a
goddamn country there was a country that
the way we describe it today we there's
a serial living no they called it the
Bering Land Bridge was a place called
Beringia like I didn't even know this I
was I'm listening to this book on tape
on my friend Steve Rinella about it's
called the American Buffalo I think it's
called American Buffalo sounds awesome
what it is it's an amazing book but it's
about the history of wildlife and Native
Americans and what changed and the like
that these people who migrated here from
Siberia how long it took them to do it
and that it wasn't even migration we
think of it as migration but it wasn't
they were just following food and it was
a slow process over thousands of years
but we think of it as like they're going
across a bridge it wasn't a bridge man
it was a fucking country well that's
what it was so little look how big it
was there was so little water because of
the Ice Age right that there you could
walk through this Beringia area it was
fucking thousands of miles wide seven
was huge
one of the issues in Central America is
just what you're describing its climate
change right now in Central America the
coffee growers can't grow the coffee the
can't grow drugs by the way and they
can't grow their coffee so what are they
doing what you just described they're
walking up through Mexico and they're
being demonized the only thing they're
guilty of is they can't grow their crop
well we we have this thing that like
dancing but that's because of climate
change forgive me that that's because
the the soil down there is dry enough
that's what that's gonna happen and it's
forced migration and talking about
adaption to me that's the most
interesting thing about what your point
was but how do we adapt to people
migrating away from these areas that are
and how do we live in America on the
coasts and in California like that's
really you're gonna have to move all
those assholes that have house just a
New York baby in those those pokey
things it's sticking to the grass
built the giant yeah hilarious yeah what
is this house is like ten million bucks
might feel that way by to somebody sent
by even going up in like a skyrise at
Sirius XM 37th floor I'm like this is
silliness silliness why am i all the way
up in the sky I don't want to work that
brought me a sense of of unhappiness and
an income I don't want to live I want to
work or live in the sky these people
live way up I don't like that we have
them you though that view it's sick yeah
but I can really give you a little brain
tingle make excited about writing look
at that look all those people I'm so
high up here dance everywhere ideas yeah
yeah yeah like anytime sure yet some
sort of surge of ideas it can be
translated into some sort of a push of
creativity always yeah and so it's
lovely when it happens a kicker keep
kicks you in the balls
how long I think like what's your best
one views I'm I've had one knows I'm
person I love mountains I fucking love
it man fuck paintings paintings can suck
it dick is that right looking at
mountain is that right you won't
I mean paintings are cool I like people
with artwork yeah I'm saying is that to
me there's no comparison like a mountain
view of the lake in the background that
to me is like whatever it is about my
DNA that to me just just where's the bit
which draws me where's the place you
were in nature that you felt the most
just happy connected I've felt it a lot
of different great and so first a big
fan of Colorado's mountains I'm a big
fan of the mountains of Utah I just I
love mountains and island in Vancouver
was for me park invent we have you ever
been of that that big Park it's like
part city shame could you look up that
I'm so so sorry
eager then like Central Park yeah I
think it's bigger I think the same guy
might have designed it but it's got
Beach doesn't how can move Lakes that's
one of the best moves about New York
City they've got a giant park in the
middle of it that was a brilliant the
guy who design is a fascinating guy is
so smart it changes everything
yeah when you're in that park you look I
know this is bullshit it's not really
nature on my cell eat you're trapped but
it's good enough it's good enough well
described nature trap I feel that way
it's by the way why I feel in resorts
when I go to Resorts I'm like this isn't
it
this is not
Turks and Caicos right yeah I'm nature
is only nature when it's connected to
bears and shit like if you just keep
going the woods something can eat you if
it's not then it's nonsense yeah and
what you're in and well dere's one thing
though they do have coyotes now in
Central Park which is really amazing
what is the concern about them we got
coyotes wolves what are they doing
people are like yeah we get alerts no
but your kids where they really forgive
my ignorance folks if you just lost your
dog to a coyote you know I feel like a
douche well people's kids didn't well
and I mean they will they will take
people out upon occasion but when it was
19 years old and Vancouver in fact was
killed by Stanley pack of man pack of
coyotes shit happens that's why you
worry about him and your shitty you
don't want to meeting your kids fair
enough you know you actually answer to
that fucking Park man that Park is where
I had an experience I mean I agree with
you the mountains and the Rockies in
general Colorado has got to be yeah
these are close that's close cuz it's
kind of like attached to the water
you know the oceans there and you got
all the trees and man we don't deal the
plainy though is like when you're out
and real ya wilderness and you run into
real wild animals no human creations is
where is Maya my Lewton I want to see no
and nothing that's created by him and
that's my full heaven yeah that's what
I'm most at peace there's something
about like a campfire and you know
you're staring up at the night sky and
you're cooking dinner with your friends
and just no one around for miles man
it's just just rolling down the Allagash
and a-rollin Thurlow canvas kayak so i
fishing away not catching anything
did you see stars yes yeah what you know
want to catch anything no that's what
happened to me I was the the the the
place that I went in Maine that were
describing way out and we went to fly
fishing trip where I learned how to fly
fish and cut zero
Maine's tricky there's a reason why
Stephen King's from Maine and every one
of his books is horrific
what is that Horeb what is it I guess
it's arm and I split my finger there
there's no people man there's no people
right like a bunch of comedians me
included had a joke we would do bits
about how you drive from Boston and
there's this one stretch before you get
to
Bangor where Stephen King lived where
they gave this pus in college
yeah no radio there was no radio yeah
you would hit the Scan button and it
would never find a signal you're like
what and there was a full hour I think
it was 60 miles or so 55 miles or so
where there was no gas stations so you
get gas and then you're on your fucking
own for an hour of Drive Levitt and it
was weird man but there was something
about the people that you would run into
along the way they would it was
disturbing they didn't have enough
contact with people you know how about
people get rickets and they get scurvy
when they don't get vitamin C well
people get some weird shit when they
don't meet enough people when you're
just out there in the woods with your
uncle and your cousin and that's it for
your whole life and then also do 24
listen to me
that ain't a good combination either
that's that is a really great idea for a
bit I mean that guy his social problems
when he comes into Fifth Avenue he's got
some weird interactive or a lack of
social yeah but he didn't get the right
diet but that being said now the
measurement isn't you can you get a
radio connection as does your phone
still work and I think everybody should
I mean it's very dangerous so not
everybody should but if you can go a
guide like that's real to me that's real
human connection that's where we're
we're supposed to be and you should have
that expected or screens that's I feel
like that's got to be bad but the
research is not connected or screens
it's an open conversation no the
research is pretty solid is that from
yeah you've read Jonathan heights work
about it I've read only the American
mind you should read it
Julie Wang E it's really interesting
because yeah discussing John Hay yeah
wait okay but it shows the consequences
of these young kids they're getting
involved in these screens you think
that's any different with us as adults
to be indoctrinated into this world of
social media and constantly on our
screens there is showing a direct
correlation particularly with young
girls are very vulnerable yes the
pressures of social media people talking
shed about each other stay in isolation
love your own bullying and you're seeing
an big uptick and self-harm big up to
suicide these are measurable I think I
think that that is pretty good on it I'm
not I'm not quite sure
you mentioned the
doesn't change it's as good as it gets
the data shows a cloud like that I think
it shows a clear line from the invention
of the iPhone yeah to message us be a
correlation or something else
what a coincidence that smartphones who
every fucking kid who's 11 years old and
up now has a smartphone I wouldn't in
every kid that you're looking at from
before had a giant decrease in giant E
and maybe read on that it's stronger
than climate it's pretty fuckin strong
okay yeah I think you're probably right
I certainly want to do something about
it and I think it's a really important
issue that's why the you know connecting
to nature is the answer to that and I
mean my kids have their phones in their
faces all the time I think it's terrible
for so many different reasons but I'm
just not sure exactly number one our our
generation of parents really struggling
with how to solve that I mean what do
you do well now we're admitting it's
real okay so admitting it's a problem so
there is I mean it's a problem and I do
think don't know I'm just not sure about
it I don't know if going to the woods is
gonna help it it's gonna make you feel a
little bit better while you're in the
woods but I don't think it's gonna
you're now there's a problem having
these goddamn devices we're constantly
addicted and checking it you're getting
this little dopamine hit yep yep
Jonathan hate world that would I think
he wrote a book about that with Lenore
scan Daisy who also advocated that this
is the problem with you know parents
being worried about their kids too much
sure helicopter parenting yeah he talks
about that too letting his own kid walk
his way home and yeah yeah it's real his
kid was really young and he got lost and
it was terrifying for a short amount of
time for them but he built a life scale
probably yeah and I you know it's um
it's all an interesting conversation
about who we are now versus who we used
to be and is it better
I think our yeah I don't know it's a
fascinating conversation
I do think that our generation like our
kids have we have more of a
disconnection to what their experiences
than any generation before us that's my
argument I don't know if that's true but
like what did our parents have TVs what
do we have upgraded TVs more channels
you know microwaves but you know it's
nothing it was a gradual change
telecommunications gradually change from
beepers to phones but then BAM back to
Moore's law and it's just
and how do we react all this how do we
parent in this how do we live in this
people are dying looking at the phones
in their cars a lot of really serious
consequences about them I kind of like
wish we didn't have him in a while I
don't know um but there's no going back
Moore's law specifically deals with
problem processors honestly I think I
don't think it's specific I don't think
no no but the argument is that they like
it only connects to processors because I
don't think they could really they could
really measure innovation that well
because things come along like splitting
the atom like you know there's things
that come along they're just fucking
throw a monkey wrench okay yeah I don't
I just I don't know if there's a benefit
that we're not quite aware of because I
think one of the things happening is
people are way more aware of virtually
everything we can complain all day that
we have less freedom in terms of our
ability to joke around about things and
people are more restrictive with
language and all these things are true
but isn't it interesting that this is
something that's happening right so
there's a there's a push back so we're
feeling this rejection of certain types
of words that we always like to use
we're feeling this rejection with
certain behaviors that a lot of
specifically men took advantage of we're
seeing this this giant chain well why we
seen this thing this giant shift is
because of social media and these
technologies are you talking about the
create problems so the question is will
this ship write itself like are these
Corrections eventually going to delete
live lead to a better society are we
going to be more understanding of each
other once we get over these initial
growing pains which is what we're going
through right now as a culture as a
society yeah getting accustomed to these
devices and these devices and the
connectivity that they have are we going
to get more responsible with them are we
going to be nicer to each other through
it we're gonna recognize as we get older
that hey you know being shitty to
someone on social media is just like
being shitty someone in person yeah and
we shouldn't support either thing and
anymore and then we develop this sort of
ethic yeah it's a really important set
of questions you just asked about social
medias effect on us I would pinpoint one
just for people to watch this
intelligence squared debate that you
would love I'm given your conversation
that you have with people is I think it
was the most one is Twitter's
good for democracy or does it create
democracy and I was on the side of yeah
it does getting out with set examples
like Egypt and even China and different
places where people and I Ron where
people use Twitter to rise up but the
the argument was it's worse because on
Twitter a lie travels so fast so rapidly
and it's so believable that it creates
more damage about things that didn't
happen and and conspiracy theory then it
also you know it's a little of both
obviously in terms of it creating
democracy you would think more speech on
Twitter it's equal creates more
democracy how could you argue with that
until you hear the other argument which
is fascinating about how much
disinformation travels and how effective
it is well my answer I think would be
the same as my answer about technology
that I'm not necessarily sure it's all
bad and I think we're going through some
growing pains but I think we go through
some growing pains with virtually every
new changing thing that's the argument
that economists make I don't you're
talking about how it affects us but the
economic argument is interesting in
terms of is it Andrew Yang's argument is
it is the rapid technological
transformation in this planet and only
the jobless decide income right I don't
know but jobless society and economists
are if always argue what you're saying
did the cotton gin but the farmer at the
the horse put the car all that but the
new argument that I hear from a lot of
people who are a billion times I'm not
smart all these people are you know
experts they study this stuff is mostly
yeah this is way different the rapid
change and it's absolutely automation is
gonna kill economies around the world
the numbers are crazy now stop and think
about you right you're a smart guy who's
gotten had a successful radio show you
do stasis not hurt in the end know you
now are in this position where you have
to adjust because you've been released
from your job yeah right yeah but you
have options now imagine you're a truck
driver and imagine that's all you've
ever been and you're 60 years old and
all of a sudden they come along and say
hey man we have these self-driving
luxury trucks that never crash into
anything we don't need you anymore and
you don't have any skills well I was any
other way to make a living you the ank's
that you feel right now imagine that
squared I could not agree more with you
my perspective is
mine alone we see things as we are not
as they are and and and thinking about
as I always talk to this about my
daughter yeah my wife painted that let's
go put it up on our wall and so my
experience for it's only relative to me
but you have to widen your perspective
to understand some people are struggling
to just get toilet paper and
understanding that and your point though
about the the truck driver his skill set
is narrow and maybe his education his
grit maybe does not a network he's not
to use the internet is right but he did
a valuable job and if he's gonna lose
his job at 63 I don't want to live in a
society that worked hard guy worked hard
his whole life and by the way he's
paying more as a percentage of taxes as
a truck driver than most these guys in
financial industry which is a complete
injustice right you know texts on your
work how much work you doing but this
guy should not have to go struggle and
learn in a job e63 let him ride into the
sunset give him a life right now I'd pay
for that that sounds you get out of your
job of Technology credit system
government where we take care of those
people it sounds romantic
yeah it sounds wonderful but here's the
problem with that it doesn't make people
feel good to just get a check people
absolutely you want to absolutely get
depressed I see you saying ride off in
the sunset they use of euphemism for
death
you're gonna die I mean you know go for
me it's my end of on Golden Pond it's
not shit himself and die no no let him
and honey that's creeping is not gonna
be able to do that he's gonna be
scratching and clawing to get through
life if you're getting a thousand
dollars a month that's not enough to
exist by the way how do you feel like it
yeah like the idealistic open-minded I
don't know I don't know what's gonna
happen but I think we should have all
possible options on the table because
what's happened in our lifetime from
1994 with you know give or take a few
years which is the invention of the the
commercial version of the Internet
right with all those the AOL and all
those things that people used it
basically all started sort of blossoming
around 1994 with malloc you jazz hands
but we here we are in 2019 so that's not
that long that's 25 fucking years in the
world is an unrecognizable place people
have devices in their pockets all the
time you're recording everything think
all the shit that Snowden figured out
that they're recording every goddamn
phone call you make every photo you take
every email you send everything's being
recorded in a database to use against
you someday in the future we have no
idea what 25 years from now it's going
to look great we really believe that we
don't need universal income and then it
turns out we do we fucked up oh no we
have to think we have I should look at
all that's on the table I don't know if
it's the right option yeah and I think
humanists people that understand human
nature they need a sense of purpose
people needs great argument I completely
agree well made and by the way when you
say you know I'm open-minded about it
like that's the conversation yeah it has
to keep being the conversation you and I
have gotten into a couple of like
arguments about little things and that's
it was awesome and I learned like your
point of view that's the conversation
and the idea that somehow you know
there's got to be a beat down and one
person to win it has to be competition
yeah it's I mean it's entertaining but
that's the problem but it's gets class
and likes and it's valuable but what do
you think about the idea that the the
automation is the main driving force
putting people out of work not this idea
of immigration I think some of it is
true and some of that mindless work is
also soul sucking so you're saving
someone to have some assembly line job
that makes them want to fucking shoot
themselves I think both those things are
true yeah I mean I think we're looking
again for a binary answer here when it's
a very nuanced issue filled with
complexities and a lot of issues and
people like to have something to do but
the problem is sometimes people get
beaten down by life and again there's
60x whatever it is years old and they
don't know what to do and then they
can't live the same lifestyle that they
had when they we had a job because when
they had a job they were making a
thousand dollars a week yeah you know
they're making this grand a year and now
all of a sudden they're making a
thousand dollars a month so you can kind
of live but what how do you live and
that's why I got to plug my podcast
what's that you got to work riding off
into the sunset yeah I mean like so I
can work out you know you want to work
you want to do work I completely agree
with that arson I don't have three jobs
because it's healthy I have three jobs
because I'm crazy and cuz I need to stay
busy and also because I don't trust any
one of these things to stick around and
are you really not know
you know I've never had whatever come on
that's rational never have never lon
no never have never will what do you
need we just don't need anything I don't
think that way I think now I'm doing it
do while I can do it do it do it and do
the best you can
it's gonna vary some days are suck some
days I'm better it's gonna vary you know
do the best I can and keep doing it but
don't think it's gonna last forever and
don't think it's gonna go away either
don't think about it at all but it could
go away what are you giving it could go
away everything go well yeah people get
pulled off a YouTube all the time you
get banned from things right things
happen weird shifts take place some of
them are logical you know people get
banned for saying the most ridiculous
things
what weird shifts are that area logical
I'm not following you
what do my internet bannings sure I
don't know would you know who Megan what
is her name Megan Murphy she's a woman
who's a turf I've talked about her too
many times it's a trans exclusionary
radical feminist and she doesn't think
that trans women are women and they
should I hope I'm not paraphrasing
paraphrasing here she don't think she
doesn't think that they should vote and
speak on women's issues and that real
that women are women who are
biologically women and then you have a
trans woman who dominates women's issues
she thinks it's fucked up and her her
this is her perspective she wrote on
Twitter a man is never a woman they told
her you have to take it down so she took
a photo later did they told her she has
to take it down so she took a photo of
it and reposted that photo she took a
screenshot reposted the screenshot then
they banned it for life so that to me I
have no patience for that and I had not
heard about it but that's crazy that's
great thought talk about aggressive
nonsense ideology well you can label it
immediately that's what this is it's
ideology yeah but I think everybody that
has these I don't want to hear that I
want to shut down speech I don't like
things right but there are some people
that are really consistent but I like to
think I am but only social media
companies have the power to decide
whether or not gets to express whether
or not a person gets to express
themselves to an unlimited amount of
people it's interesting and if you tell
them that based on your ideology with
most people don't agree with who it's on
your ideology they have said enough that
something that merits you taking away
their ability to express themselves then
I think you
open up a real discussion much like the
Second Amendment discussion among the
First Amendment to what are we doing
here what is this and what is free
speech and is this a Town Hall and Jack
Dorsey from Twitter believes it's a Town
Hall he thinks everyone should have the
ability to express themselves but that
like everything else fucking complicated
a mess
it certainly is nadine strossen who i
think used to be something at the ECL
you wrote a book about speech and about
how in Germany you're not allowed to fly
the swastika and they have censorship on
speech and that it's not effective for
any of the outcomes that it's intended
for they also make a lot of shit porn is
that right German the Germans could use
anyone the plugger
I don't think I know any names but for
whatever reason a lot of shit the thing
shit porn it's not a thing I try to be
very open-minded but I don't I don't
understand I'm not gonna don't have to
understand you know I don't some people
you allow people to do it right I would
never allow people to think about of
course yeah that's a weird one right a
weird it's yeah people want shit in
people's mouths and oh and some other
themselves and shit that's at each other
my instant reaction is what went on
what's that about oh hell where's that I
want to I want that story
I want that script how do you get to to
that that sounds very abusive and it
sounds like it's it's a tough thing but
no but no the idea of censoring speech
backfires it's just not healthy i but i
think people should be generally
sensitive and not assholes at the same
time it's also the thing about someone
saying something in print that you read
on twitter it's like you can't even say
anything back to them you make your own
comment but you're like fuck this is
such a shitty way to talk it's poison
yeah it's a shitty way okay yeah I don't
engage in it anymore I post things up
that I think are interesting how did you
evolve on it just decided it's not these
arguments or not they make you riled up
they're not healthy they're not they
don't they're not I told my daughter
hold on I'm arguing with someone on
Twitter said it out loud and I was like
oh I'm the shittiest that's the
shittiest thing that I could be doing I
just think right now so it was
unmanageable when you get to a certain
number of hours
can't because there's no way you can and
it's also people just like they're
fucking in their cubicle they're just
trying to get a rise out of people
they're angry they're shit they're bored
if you can't expect that everybody's
existing in the same vibration that you
walk up to a tweet that said you're a
pitiful person I was like I don't know
good morning bro you're not guys are no
no I'm not even oh yeah it doesn't faze
me at all but it shouldn't if it doesn't
it's it is fascinating that someone
would write such a thing it is but it's
not click on him and be like I wonder
what his deal is clearly he's projecting
and I'm worried about I wonder what
happened in that guy you look at their
weight you look at their picture and
then you decide everything about their
life did you ever look like there's
nothing reason I can't run for Congress
I think like I want to keep doing
stand-up and I want to talk about things
like you ever look at a guy like the guy
I run in the car from yesterday at LAX I
thought about how much he jerks off for
a little while and never think about
that I I will sometimes like I got a
bike I bet that guy isn't good for him
and whatever but that kind of I know I
brought that up I'll think about that
now it really is right Shane in the
mouth but the I watch the video once no
ID now it's always Drive it was really
in she's gonna do it guys shitting in
her mouth and she was she was speaking
in German and there was translating it
to English and she was talking about all
of her experiences and when the first
time a guy did it and what what kind of
diet she likes a guy to follow when he
shits in her mouth and I'm like okay
this is not pleasant I'm not enjoying
this but honestly and this is like it's
a kind of a dumb thing to talk about
right but here's why it's not human
psychology that yeah it's a person that
was a baby
yes yes yes that was a big try not to
fuck up all the sudden this baby's 50
and she likes guys shitting in her mouth
and she wears like rawr for parenting
should be somewhere you know round no
shitting on other people like then you
know you succeeded by the way get a lot
of money for it like Robert dudes named
Robert Redford Indecent Proposal do me
more Oh million dollars I want to put
myself out there right now yeah shit ah
yes for a million bucks please tweet
please not that long I've got a knife in
the guy's shit I've got a number what's
your number
that's a what is your number of the
get shit on slowly every day as a clerk
at Dunkin Donuts or one giant load on
your chest that is like a really rough
afternoon
not even an afternoon it's like an hour
hit me with a giant Lowe's shower up I
think everybody says it are rounds on me
boys it just became a millionaire god
you shouldn't you just well thank you
your impending Eric it's like saying
that it's solid what if it was like a
diary yet you do whatever let him shit
all obvious why don't water as long as
you have goggles on and you you get to
close your mouth there's a lot of lot of
things stained windows thought
experiments come up I'm always like you
wouldn't like you wouldn't kiss a guy
never tell my dad this for how much
money I was like that a million bucks
what if he goes no I got dead that's
preposterous that's ridiculous you got a
problem and then he goes no I wouldn't
do it he calls back and he goes he tells
me who he names a guy and all the
Italian he's like I did I who's a he
goes Paul Sorvino okay that's my answer
million bucks he'd make it a pulse
everybody would because the what would
you do with that money you could save
other people's lives
you gotta buy a fur coat and start
balling either way it's a million bucks
yeah no matter what that's not until the
money runs out well go everywhere
horrified do that well I wouldn't either
but I will same button make out with
Paul Sorvino we're living in this
fantasy world why does everything have
to be ethical and moral just have a good
goddamn time
white fur like Snow Leopard or some shit
something exotic what when you say that
like what do you mean why is everything
you have to be ethical/moral like you
have your moral code yeah man but I'm
talking about making out with Paul
Sorvino for a million bucks that's free
money Oh wrong oh yeah right everybody
should want whoever you want if Paul
says listen you want to make it three oh
shit take a big meaty meatball shit it's
exactly imagine right in your fucking
head
extra two three million bucks you got a
bad memory of making out with Paul
Sorvino on your head but the end of the
day the guy kept his promise and now
you're rich did you put me in the best
mood I've been in in four weeks man
that's good let's end it with this then
when you gonna start your podcast
we're people gonna be able to see it
like what do you think podcast is up
it's up now yeah and say it's great I
hope you give me a chance I'm just
figuring it out and put up one with that
guest doctor and Carolyn I talked to
congressman Tim Ryan about running for
Congress how many have you done so far
I'm gonna have a third one hopefully in
the can tomorrow
Emily Atkin who writes the heated
newsletter about climate change
excellent but I'm taping a special if
I'm gonna plug anything my hometown I'm
taping a very special special stand-up
special special stand-ups very special
I'm do a very special thing what's it
gonna be for do you have a buyer for it
no no no I learned on this show what
Andrew Schultz did and I thought it was
brilliant oh yeah yeah he's he's nailed
it he's nailed it I was like dude he's
the master I admire what you did we
don't agree on like political but that's
the kind of thing I'm like dude you know
he knows we don't agree I'm like I love
that's brilliant good job what do you
not agree with I don't know but I mean
we he was on the show we just argue but
I buy politics I don't even remember
argue with everybody yeah you're a
little argumentative yeah it's not a
good quality I'm so did at today I was i
agitating no no you didn't agitate me I
like you but you definitely were like
you're you you have an argument mode do
you fall into it's bad spike it's my
flaw I hate it taking it out of that I'm
working on it yeah can I think that you
could see the chains are mountable today
yeah but I mean it goes back it goes
back before I you know I don't want to
defend it I don't wanna be defensive but
I feel really I guess I'm very sensitive
about a lot of things so I get
passionate and I get that tone and it's
the worst thing in the relationship
oh yeah I mean like it's not you don't
want to be annoying it's like what I
said about podcasts you know that's a
thing like people hearing your voice
it's not just your thoughts right right
you're the way you express your thoughts
yeah it it changes if you express them
well in a nice way it changes how people
absorb those it sounds so simplistic but
it's true I think we need to talk about
how to communicate on your podcast it's
often one of the best things you do I've
learned a lot from it I've been
listening to you talk about trying to
understand people and listen people you
don't disagree with and I'm just sitting
there beating myself up I'm like I gotta
be better at that and the idea that I
would get you know that I was too
argumentative today it's like oh man I'm
sorry I don't want to never want to
communicate that way I don't think it's
effective I thought I completely agree
with you
thoughts on it it's completely
ineffective well we get bad around I
wonder how the pot affected me probably
got your little jabber John what do you
think that something's changed right
got a little Jabberjaw in the pocket I
started getting four bows yeah I knew I
shouldn't touch this yeah you maybe
shouldn't have the second hit that was I
only had one mmm I knew I knew and this
one you got a surfboard good role model
no dude it's fine it's all good it's
like but I think that if I've learned
anything from doing this podcast it's
how to be better at talking to people
I've learned from listening to this
podcast how to be better yeah yeah it's
like there's an art to it there's a Dan
I completely agree with someone you
dance with someone in a conversation
they do condition you to be
argumentative in rare live radio all the
people who think they know all the
producers and show the program I never
had a job yeah but I mean it's it's
toxic and I don't you know it's a tie I
agree it's a toxic way to communicate
it's not effective if you're trying to
convince someone don't do it like that
no I imagine I mean imagine trying to go
from being a cable news broadcaster on
fox TV like Shepard Smith yeah and then
have him try to do a podcast he's in
that fake voice no matter what that fake
voice is coming out I mean they're all
doing it it's like this this is
absolutely right you're very right about
that and that's why I think your podcast
by the way is very I did it's not the
sexiest thing to talk about but it's a
huge part of why this discussion is so
popular because people like a thoughtful
open-minded discussion I mean what do
you really think yeah whether they grade
that some people pretend they don't but
it's really cuz they're bored with what
they have to do all day so they don't
want to think but if you're if you have
some time and you're a curious person
you like to hear other people thinking
too and you would like to hear someone
who's thinking either in a way like oh I
would I would think about that too or in
a way like you hadn't considered like oh
this guy's making me think or this
woman's got an idea that I never
considered or this guy see I think a
solution that I never thought was
possible that yeah may I try to measure
P I think measuring intelligence is one
great definition I've heard is by how
good the questions are like you're Kara
are you curious I've tried to instill
and engender my daughters
curiosity but everything rather than
saying you're gonna do it because I'm
your father and I said so but like only
explaining to you why that's try to you
know create critical thinking skills and
that's how I measure intelligence how
good are your questions you're really
curious you really I mean that's why the
art of the interview learning something
which is what I'm definitely trying to
that's what I did for 12 years in
serious exam that's what I want to do
with the podcast getting people who are
a billion times smarter than me I don't
know anything but anything I think it's
definitely get changes made free of
people's influence some production
people and executives just our innocent
activity good things but I'm so
wondering when the day is gonna come
like it did where they drop the fucking
hatchet I don't need that worried about
that have it over your head mmm-hmm yeah
it's done so what's the name of your
podcast stand up with Pete down oh it's
the same as your show you fuck my
grandma do you don't you own that yeah
they let me a serious Kent yeah they're
writing very gracious talking a lot of
shit about them get it in writing I did
not talk any shop talked a lot of shit I
did not I think what they did for me was
really great but I think corporate media
in general is the conversation they're
all kind of in the same system I've
worked and made money out of all of them
I'm excited to be independent but I
can't deny that they created a a
platform for a really thoughtful
conversation for 12 years I can't its it
don't have to yeah so I I'm I'm in that
you know I it was a good life for me
and now it's on to you know the next
thing now it's on like Donkey Kong the
Syracuse funny about November 29th and
3000 Dominic calm rights epidemic taco
stand up with Pete Dominic calm Twitter
Instagram Joe Rogan's I love you love
you too buddy I really admire you and
what you've done here Jamie thank you
you guys are awesome bye everybody
shouldn't take in a second hit